

================================================================================
Ch1 microservices overview / tech notes (PDF pages 17-45)
================================================================================

--- PAGE 17 ---
Part	I.	
Foundation
--- PAGE 18 ---
Chapter	1.	
What	Are
Microservices?
Microservices	have	become	an	increasingly	popular	architecture	choice	in	the
half	decade	or	more	since	I	wrote	the	first	edition	of	this	book.	I	can’t	claim
credit	for	the	subsequent	explosion	in	popularity,	but	the	rush	to	make	use	of
microservice	architectures	means	that	while	many	of	the	ideas	I	captured
previously	are	now	tried	and	tested,	new	ideas	have	come	into	the	mix	at	the
same	time	that	earlier	practices	have	fallen	out	of	favor.	So	it’s	once	again	time
to	distill	the	essence	of	microservice	architecture	while	highlighting	the	core
concepts	that	make	microservices	work.
This	book	as	a	whole	is	designed	to	give	a	broad	overview	of	the	impact	that
microservices	have	on	various	aspects	of	software	delivery.	To	start	us	off,	this
chapter	will	take	a	look	at	the	core	ideas	behind	microservices,	the	prior	art	that
brought	us	here,	and	some	reasons	why	these	architectures	are	used	so	widely.
Microservices	at	a	Glance
Microservices
	are
	independently	releasable	services	that	are	modeled	around	a
business	domain.	A	service	encapsulates	functionality	and	makes	it	accessible	to
other	services	via	networks—you	construct	a	more	complex	system	from	these
building	blocks.	One	microservice	might	represent	inventory,	another	order
management,	and	yet	another	shipping,	but	together	they	might	constitute	an
entire	ecommerce	system.	Microservices	are	an	architecture	choice	that	is
focused	on	giving	you	many	options	for	solving	the	problems	you	might	face.
They	are	a	
type
	of	service-oriented	architecture,	albeit	one	that	is	opinionated
about	how	service	boundaries	should	be	drawn,	and	one	in	which	independent
deployability	is	key.	They	are	technology	agnostic,	which	is	one	of	the
advantages	they	offer.
From	the	outside,	a	single	microservice	is	treated	as	a	black	box.	It	hosts
business	functionality	on	one	or	more	network	endpoints	(for	example,	a	queue
--- PAGE 19 ---
or	a	REST	API,	as	shown	in	
Figure	1-1
),	over	whatever	protocols	are	most
appropriate.	Consumers,	whether	they’re	other	microservices	or	other	sorts	of
programs,	access	this	functionality	via	these	networked	endpoints.	Internal
implementation	details	(such	as	the	technology	the	service	is	written	in	or	the
way	data	is	stored)	are	entirely	hidden	from	the	outside	world.	This	means
microservice	architectures	avoid	the	use	of	shared	databases	in	most
circumstances;	instead,	each	microservice	encapsulates	its	own	database	where
required.
Figure	1-1.	
A	microservice	exposing	its	functionality	over	a	REST	API	and	a	topic
Microservices
	embrace	the	concept	of	information	hiding.
	
Information	hiding
means	hiding	as	much	information	as	possible	inside	a	component	and	exposing
as	little	as	possible	via	external	interfaces.	This	allows	for	clear	separation
between	what	can	change	easily	and	what	is	more	difficult	to	change.
Implementation	that	is	hidden	from	external	parties	can	be	changed	freely	as
1
--- PAGE 20 ---
long	as	the	networked	interfaces	the	microservice	exposes	don’t	change	in	a
backward-incompatible	fashion.	Changes	inside	a	microservice	boundary	(as
shown	in	
Figure	1-1
)	shouldn’t	affect	an	upstream	consumer,	enabling
independent	releasability	of	functionality.	This	is	essential	in	allowing	our
microservices	to	be	worked	on	in	isolation	and	released	on	demand.	Having
clear,	stable	service	boundaries	that	don’t	change	when	the	internal
implementation	changes	results	in	systems	that	have	looser	coupling	and
stronger	
cohesion.
While
	we’re	talking	about	hiding	internal	implementation	detail,	it	would	be
remiss	of	me	not	to	mention	the	
Hexagonal	Architecture
	pattern,	first	detailed	by
Alistair	Cockburn.
	This	pattern	describes	the	importance	of	keeping	the	internal
implementation	separate	from	its	external	interfaces,	with	the	idea	that	you
might	want	to	interact	with	the	same	functionality	over	different	types	of
interfaces.	I	draw	my	microservices	as	hexagons	partly	to	differentiate	them
from	“normal”	services,	but	also	as	an	homage	to	this	piece	of	prior	art.
ARE	SERVICE-ORIENTED	ARCHITECTURE	AND
MICROSERVICES	DIFFERENT	THINGS?
Service-oriented	architecture
	(SOA)
	is	a	design	approach	in	which	multiple
services	collaborate	to	provide	a	certain	end	set	of	capabilities.	(A	
service
here	typically	means	a	completely	separate	operating	system	process.)
Communication	between	these	services	occurs	via	calls	across	a	network
rather	than	method	calls	within	a	process	boundary.
SOA	emerged	as	an	approach	to	combat	the	challenges	of	large,	monolithic
applications.	This	approach	
aims	to	promote	the	reusability	of	software;	two
or	more	end-user	applications,	for	example,	could	use	the	same	services.
SOA	aims	to	make	it	easier	to	maintain	or	rewrite	software,	as	theoretically
we	can	replace	one	service	with	another	without	anyone	knowing,	as	long	as
the	semantics	of	the	service	don’t	change	too	much.
SOA	at	its	heart	is	a	sensible	idea.	However,	despite	many	efforts,	there	is	a
lack	of	good	consensus	on	how	to	do	SOA	
well
.	In	my	opinion,	much	of	the
industry	failed	to	look	holistically	enough	at	the	problem	and	present	a
compelling	alternative	to	the	narrative	set	out	by	various	vendors	in	this
space.
2
--- PAGE 21 ---
Many	of	the	problems	laid	at	the	door	of	SOA	are	actually	problems	with
things	like	communication	protocols	(e.g.,	SOAP),	vendor	middleware,	a
lack	of	guidance	about	service	granularity,	or	the	wrong	guidance	on	picking
places	to	split	your	system.	A	cynic	might	suggest	that	vendors	co-opted
(and	in	some	cases	drove)	the	SOA	movement	as	a	way	to	sell	more
products,	and	those	selfsame	products	in	the	end	undermined	the	goal	of
SOA.
I’ve	seen	plenty	of	examples	of	SOA	in	which	teams	were	striving	to	make
the	services	smaller,	but	they	still	had	everything	coupled	to	a	database	and
had	to	deploy	everything	together.	Service	oriented?	Yes.	But	it’s	not
microservices.
The	microservice	approach	has	emerged	from	real-world	use,	taking	our
better	understanding	of	systems	and	architecture	to	do	SOA	well.	You	should
think	of	microservices	as	being	a	specific	approach	for	SOA	in	the	same	way
that	Extreme	Programming	(XP)	or	Scrum	is	a	specific	approach	for	Agile
software	development.
Key	Concepts	of	Microservices
A
	few	core	ideas	must	be	understood	when	you	are	exploring	microservices.
Given	that	some	aspects	are	often	overlooked,	it’s	vital	to	explore	these	concepts
further	to	help	ensure	that	you	understand	just	what	it	is	that	makes
microservices	work.
Independent	Deployability
Independent	deployability
	is
	the	idea	that	we	can	make	a	change	to	a
microservice,	deploy	it,	and	release	that	change	to	our	users,	without	having	to
deploy	any	other	microservices.	More	important,	it’s	not	just	the	fact	that	we	can
do	this;	it’s	that	this	is	
actually
	how	you	manage	deployments	in	your	system.
It’s	a	discipline	you	adopt	as	your	default	release	approach.	This	is	a	simple	idea
that	is	nonetheless	complex	in	execution.
--- PAGE 22 ---
TIP
If	you	take	only	one	thing	from	this	book	and	from	the	concept	of	microservices	in	general,	it
should	be	this:	ensure	that	you	embrace	the	concept	of	independent	deployability	of	your
microservices.	Get	into	the	habit	of	deploying	and	releasing	changes	to	a	single	microservice
into	production	without	having	to	deploy	anything	else.	From	this,	many	good	things	will
follow.
To
	ensure	independent	deployability,	we	need	to	make	sure	our	microservices
are	
loosely	coupled
:	we	must	be	able	to	change	one	service	without	having	to
change	anything	else.	This	means	we	need	explicit,	well-defined,	and	stable
contracts	between	services.	Some	implementation	choices	make	this	difficult—
the	sharing	of	databases,	for	example,	is	especially	problematic.
Independent	deployability	in	and	of	itself	is	clearly	incredibly	valuable.	But	to
achieve	independent	deployability,	there	are	so	many	other	things	you	have	to
get	right	that	in	turn	have	their	own	benefits.	So	you	can	also	see	the	focus	on
independent	deployability	as	a	forcing	function—by	focusing	on	this	as	an
outcome,	you’ll	achieve	a	number	of	ancillary	benefits.
The	desire	for	loosely	coupled	services	with	stable	interfaces	guides	our	thinking
about	how	we	find	our	microservice	boundaries	in	the	first	place.
Modeled	Around	a	Business	Domain
Techniques
	like	domain-driven	design	can	allow	you	to	structure	your	code	to
better	represent	the	real-world	domain	that	the	software	operates	in.
	With
microservice	architectures,	we	use	this	same	idea	to	define	our	service
boundaries.	By	modeling	services	around	business	domains,	we	can	make	it
easier	to	roll	out	new	functionality	and	to	recombine	microservices	in	different
ways	to	deliver	new	functionality	to	our	users.
Rolling	out	a	feature	that	requires	changes	to	more	than	one	microservice	is
expensive.	You	need	to	coordinate	the	work	across	each	service	(and	potentially
across	separate	teams)	and	carefully	manage	the	order	in	which	the	new	versions
of	these	services	are	deployed.	That	takes	a	lot	more	work	than	making	the	same
change	inside	a	single	service	(or	inside	a	monolith,	for	that	matter).	It	therefore
follows	that	we	want	to	find	ways	to	make	cross-service	changes	as	infrequent	as
3
--- PAGE 23 ---
possible.
I	often	see	layered	architectures,	as	typified	by	the	three-tiered	architecture	in
Figure	1-2
.	Here,	each	layer	in	the	architecture	represents	a	different	service
boundary,	with	each	service	boundary	based	on	related	technical	functionality.	If
I	need	to	make	a	change	to	just	the	presentation	layer	in	this	example,	that	would
be	fairly	efficient.	However,	experience	has	shown	that	changes	in	functionality
typically	span	multiple	layers	in	these	types	of	architectures—requiring	changes
in	presentation,	application,	and	data	tiers.	This	problem	is	exacerbated	if	the
architecture	is	even	more	layered	than	the	simple	example	in	
Figure	1-2
;	often
each	tier	is	split	into	further	layers.
By	making	our	services	end-to-end	slices	of	business	functionality,	we	ensure
that	our	architecture	is	arranged	to	make	changes	to	business	functionality	as
efficient	as	possible.	Arguably,	with	microservices	we	have	made	a	decision	to
prioritize	high	cohesion	of	business	functionality	over	high	cohesion	of	technical
functionality.
--- PAGE 24 ---
Figure	1-2.	
A	traditional	three-tiered	architecture
We	will	come	back	to	the	interplay	of	domain-driven	design	and	how	it	interacts
with	organizational	design	later	in	this	chapter.
Owning	Their	Own	State
One
	of	the	things	I	see	people	having	the	hardest	time	with	is	the	idea	that
microservices	should	avoid	the	use	of	shared	databases.	If	a	microservice	wants
to	access	data	held	by	another	microservice,	it	should	go	and	ask	that	second
microservice	for	the	data.	This	gives	the	microservices	the	ability	to	decide	what
is	shared	and	what	is	hidden,	which	allows	us	to	clearly	separate	functionality
that	can	change	freely	(our	internal	implementation)	from	the	functionality	that
we	want	to	change	infrequently	(the	external	contract	that	the	consumers	use).
If
	we	want	to	make	independent	deployability	a	reality,	we	need	to	ensure	that
we	limit	backward-incompatible	changes	to	our	microservices.	If	we	break
--- PAGE 25 ---
compatibility	with	upstream	consumers,	we	will	force	them	to	change	as	well.
Having	a	clean	delineation	between	internal	implementation	detail	and	an
external	contract	for	a	microservice	can	help	reduce	the	need	for	backward-
incompatible	changes.
Hiding
	internal	state	in	a	microservice	is	analogous	to	the	practice	of
encapsulation	in	object-oriented	(OO)	programming.	Encapsulation	of	data	in
OO	systems	is	an	example	of	information	hiding	in	action.
TIP
Don’t	share	databases	unless	you	really	need	to.	And	even	then	do	everything	you	can	to	avoid
it.	In	my	opinion,	sharing	databases	is	one	of	the	worst	things	you	can	do	if	you’re	trying	to
achieve	independent	deployability.
As	discussed	in	the	previous	section,	we	want	to	think	of	our	services	as	end-to-
end	slices	of	business	functionality	that,	where	appropriate,	encapsulate	user
interface	(UI),	business	logic,	and	data.	This	is	because	we	want	to	reduce	the
effort	needed	to	change	business-related	functionality.	The	encapsulation	of	data
and	behavior	in	this	way	gives	us	high	cohesion	of	business	functionality.	By
hiding	the	database	that	backs	our	service,	we	also	ensure	that	we	reduce
coupling.	We	come	back	to	coupling	and	cohesion	in	
Chapter	2
.
Size
“How
	big	should	a	microservice	be?”	is	one	of	the	most	common	questions	I
hear.	Considering	the	word	“micro”	is	right	there	in	the	name,	this	comes	as	no
surprise.	However,	when	you	get	into	what	makes	microservices	work	as	a	type
of	architecture,	the	concept	of	size	is	actually	one	of	the	least	interesting	aspects.
How	do	you	measure	size?	By	counting	lines	of	code?	That	doesn’t	make	much
sense	to	me.	Something	that	might	require	25	lines	of	code	in	Java	could	be
written	in	10	lines	of	Clojure.	That’s	not	to	say	Clojure	is	better	or	worse	than
Java;	some	languages	are	simply	more	expressive	than	others.
James	Lewis,	technical	director	at	Thoughtworks,	has	been	known	to	say	that	“a
microservice	should	be	as	big	as	my	head.”	At	first	glance,	this	doesn’t	seem
--- PAGE 26 ---
terribly	helpful.	After	all,	how	big	is	James’s	head	exactly?	The	rationale	behind
this	statement	is	that	a	microservice	should	be	kept	to	the	size	at	which	it	can	be
easily	understood.	The	challenge,	of	course,	is	that	different	people’s	ability	to
understand	something	isn’t	always	the	same,	and	as	such	you’ll	need	to	make
your	own	judgment	regarding	what	size	works	for	you.	An	experienced	team
may	be	able	to	better	manage	a	larger	codebase	than	another	team	could.	So
perhaps	it	would	be	better	to	read	James’s	quote	here	as	“a	microservice	should
be	as	big	as	
your
	head.”
I	think	the	closest	I	get	to	“size”	having	any	meaning	in	terms	of	microservices
is	something	that	Chris	Richardson,	the	author	of	
Microservice	Patterns
(Manning	Publications),	once	said—the	goal	of	microservices	is	to	have	“as
small	an	interface	as	possible.”	That	aligns	with	the	concept	of	information
hiding	again,	but	it	does	represent	an	attempt	to	find	meaning	in	the	term
“microservices”	that	wasn’t	there	
initially.
	When	the	term	was	first	used	to
define	these	architectures,	the	focus,	at	least	initially,	was	not	specifically	on	the
size	of	the	interfaces.
Ultimately,	the	concept	of	size	is	highly	contextual.	Speak	to	a	person	who	has
worked	on	a	system	for	15	years,	and	they’ll	feel	that	their	system	with	100,000
lines	of	code	is	really	easy	to	understand.	Ask	the	opinion	of	someone	brand-
new	to	the	project,	and	they’ll	feel	it’s	much	too	big.	Likewise,	ask	a	company
that	has	just	embarked	on	its	microservice	transition	and	has	perhaps	10	or	fewer
microservices,	and	you’ll	get	a	different	answer	than	you	would	from	a	similar-
sized	company	for	which	microservices	have	been	the	norm	for	many	years	and
that	now	has	hundreds.
I	urge	people	not	to	worry	about	size.	When	you	are	first	starting	out,	it’s	much
more	important	that	you	focus	on	two	key	things.	First,	how	many	microservices
can	you	handle?	As	you	have	more	services,	the	complexity	of	your	system	will
increase,	and	you’ll	need	to	learn	new	skills	(and	perhaps	adopt	new	technology)
to	cope	with	this.	A	move	to	microservices	will	introduce	new	sources	of
complexity,	with	all	the	challenges	this	can	bring.	It’s	for	this	reason	that	I	am	a
strong	advocate	for	incremental	migration	to	a	microservice	architecture.
Second,	how	do	you	define	microservice	boundaries	to	get	the	most	out	of	them,
without	everything	becoming	a	horribly	coupled	mess?	These	topics	are	much
more	important	to	focus	on	when	you	start	your	journey.
--- PAGE 27 ---
Flexibility
Another
	quote	from	James	Lewis	is	that	“microservices	buy	you	options.”	Lewis
was	being	deliberate	with	his	words—they	
buy
	you	
options
.	They	have	a	cost,
and	you	must	decide	whether	the	cost	is	worth	the	options	you	want	to	take	up.
The	resulting	flexibility	on	a	number	of	axes—organizational,	technical,	scale,
robustness—can	be	incredibly	appealing.
We	don’t	know	what	the	future	holds,	so	we’d	like	an	architecture	that	can
theoretically	help	us	solve	whatever	problems	we	might	face	down	the	road.
Finding	a	balance	between	keeping	your	options	open	and	bearing	the	cost	of
architectures	like	this	can	be	a	real	art.
Think	of	adopting	microservices	as	less	like	flipping	a	switch,	and	more	like
turning	a	dial.	As	you	turn	up	the	dial,	and	you	have	more	microservices,	you
have	increased	flexibility.	But	you	likely	ramp	up	the	pain	points	too.	This	is	yet
another	reason	I	strongly	advocate	incremental	adoption	of	microservices.	By
turning	up	the	dial	gradually,	you	are	better	able	to	assess	the	impact	as	you	go,
and	to	stop	if	required.
Alignment	of	Architecture	and	Organization
MusicCorp,	an
	ecommerce	company	that	sells	CDs	online,	uses	the	simple	three-
tiered	architecture	shown	earlier	in	
Figure	1-2
.	We’ve	decided	to	move
MusicCorp	kicking	and	screaming	into	the	21st	century,	and	as	part	of	that,
we’re	assessing	the	existing	system	architecture.	We	have	a	web-based	UI,	a
business	logic	layer	in	the	form	of	a	monolithic	backend,	and	data	storage	in	a
traditional	database.	These	layers,	as	is	common,	are	owned	by	different	teams.
We’ll	be	coming	back	to	the	trials	and	tribulations	of	MusicCorp	throughout	the
book.
We	want	to	make	a	simple	update	to	our	functionality:	we	want	to	allow	our
customers	to	specify	their	favorite	genre	of	music.	This	update	requires	us	to
change	the	UI	to	show	the	genre	choice	UI,	the	backend	service	to	allow	for	the
genre	to	be	surfaced	to	the	UI	and	for	the	value	to	be	changed,	and	the	database
to	accept	this	change.	These	changes	will	need	to	be	managed	by	each	team	and
deployed	in	the	correct	order,	as	outlined	in	
Figure	1-3
.
--- PAGE 28 ---
Figure	1-3.	
Making	a	change	across	all	three	tiers	is	more	involved
Now	this	architecture	isn’t	bad.	All	architecture	ends	up	getting	optimized
around	a	set	of	goals.	Three-tiered	architecture	is	so	common	partly	because	it	is
universal—everyone	has	heard	about	it.	So	the	tendency	to	pick	a	common
architecture	that	you	might	have	seen	elsewhere	is	often	one	reason	we	keep
seeing	this	pattern.	But	I	think	the	biggest	reason	we	see	this	architecture	again
and	again	is	because	it	is	based	on	how	we	organize	our	teams.
The
	now	famous	Conway’s	law	states	the	following:
Organizations	which	design	systems...are	constrained	to	produce	designs
which	are	copies	of	the	communication	structures	of	these	organizations.
—
Melvin	Conway,	
“How	Do	Committees	Invent?”
The	three-tiered	architecture	is	a	good	example	of	this	law	in	action.	In	the	past,
the	primary	way	IT	organizations	grouped	people	was	in	terms	of	their	core
competency:	database	admins	were	in	a	team	with	other	database	admins;	Java
developers	were	in	a	team	with	other	Java	developers;	and	frontend	developers
(who	nowadays	know	exotic	things	like	JavaScript	and	native	mobile	application
development)	were	in	yet	another	team.	We	group	people	based	on	their	core
--- PAGE 29 ---
competency,	so	we	create	IT	assets	that	can	be	aligned	to	those	teams.
That	explains	why	this	architecture	is	so	common.	It’s	not	bad;	it’s	just
optimized	around	one	set	of	forces—how	we	traditionally	grouped	people,
around	familiarity.	But	the	forces	have	changed.	Our	aspirations	around	our
software	have	changed.	We	now	group	people	in	poly-skilled	teams	to	reduce
handoffs	and	silos.	We	want	to	ship	software	much	more	quickly	than	ever
before.	That	is	driving	us	to	make	different	choices	about	the	way	we	organize
our	teams,	so	that	we	organize	them	in	terms	of	the	way	we	break	our	systems
apart.
Most	changes	that	we	are	asked	to	make	to	our	system	relate	to	changes	in
business	functionality.	But	in	
Figure	1-3
,	our	business	functionality	is	in	effect
spread	across	all	three	tiers,	increasing	the	chance	that	a	change	in	functionality
will	cross	layers.	This	is	an	architecture	that	has	high	cohesion	of	related
technology	but	low	cohesion	of	business	functionality.	If	we	want	to	make	it
easier	to	make	changes,	instead	we	need	to	change	how	we	group	code,	choosing
cohesion	of	business	functionality	rather	than	technology.	Each	service	may	or
may	not	end	up	containing	a	mix	of	these	three	layers,	but	that	is	a	local	service
implementation	concern.
Let’s
	compare	this	with	a	potential	alternative	architecture,	illustrated	in
Figure	1-4
.	Rather	than	a	horizontally	layered	architecture	and	organization,	we
instead	break	down	our	organization	and	architecture	along	vertical	business
lines.	Here	we	see	a	dedicated	team	that	has	full-end-to-end	responsibility	for
making	changes	to	aspects	of	the	customer	profile,	which	ensures	that	the	scope
of	change	in	this	example	is	limited	to	one	team.
As	an	implementation,	this	could	be	achieved	through	a	single	microservice
owned	by	the	profile	team	that	exposes	a	UI	to	allow	customers	to	update	their
information,	with	state	of	the	customer	also	stored	within	this	microservice.	The
choice	of	a	favorite	genre	is	associated	with	a	given	customer,	so	this	change	is
much	more	localized.	In	
Figure	1-5
,	we	also	show	the	list	of	available	genres
being	fetched	from	a	
Catalog
	microservice,	something	that	would	likely	already
be	in	place.	We	also	see	a	new	
Recommendation
	microservice	accessing	our
favorite	genre	information,	something	that	could	easily	follow	in	a	subsequent
release.
--- PAGE 30 ---
Figure	1-4.	
The	UI	is	broken	apart	and	is	owned	by	a	team	that	also	manages	the	serverside	functionality
that	supports	the	UI
Figure	1-5.	
A	dedicated	
Customer
	microservice	can	make	it	much	easier	to	record	the	favorite	musical
genre	for	a	customer
In	such	a	situation,	our	
Customer
	microservice	encapsulates	a	thin	slice	of	each
of	the	three	tiers—it	has	a	bit	of	UI,	a	bit	of	application	logic,	and	a	bit	of	data
storage.	Our	business	domain	becomes	the	primary	force	driving	our	system
architecture,	hopefully	making	it	easier	to	make	changes,	as	well	as	making	it
easier	for	us	to	align	our	teams	to	lines	of	business	within	the	organization.
Often,	the
	UI	is	not	provided	directly	by	the	microservice,	but	even	if	this	is	the
--- PAGE 31 ---
case,	we	would	expect	the	portion	of	the	UI	related	to	this	functionality	to	still	be
owned	by	the	Customer	Profile	Team,	as	
Figure	1-4
	indicates.	This	concept	of	a
team	owning	an	end-to-end	slice	of	user-facing	functionality	is	gaining	traction.
The	book	
Team	Topologies
	introduces	the	idea	of	a	stream-aligned	team,	which
embodies	this	concept:
A	stream-aligned	team	is	a	team	aligned	to	a	single,	valuable	stream	of	work...
[T]he	team	is	empowered	to	build	and	deliver	customer	or	user	value	as
quickly,	safely,	and	independently	as	possible,	without	requiring	hand-offs	to
other	teams	to	perform	parts	of	the	work.
The	teams	shown	in	
Figure	1-4
	would	be	stream-aligned	teams,	a	concept	we’ll
explore	in	more	depth	in	Chapters	
14
	and	
15
,	including	how	these	types	of
organizational	structures	work	in	practice,	and	how	they	align	with
microservices.
A	NOTE	ON	“FAKE”	COMPANIES
Throughout	the	book,	at	different	stages,	we	will	meet	MusicCorp,
FinanceCo,	FoodCo,	AdvertCo,	and	PaymentCo.
FoodCo,	AdvertCo,	and	PaymentCo	are	real	companies	whose	names	I	have
changed	for	confidentiality	reasons.	In	addition,	when	sharing	information
about	these	companies,	I	have	often	omitted	certain	details	to	provide	more
clarity.	The	real	world	is	often	messy.	I’ve	always	strived,	though,	to	remove
only	extraneous	detail	that	wouldn’t	be	helpful,	while	still	ensuring	that	the
underlying	reality	of	the	situation	remains.
MusicCorp,	on	the	other	hand,	is	a	fake	company	that	is	a	composite	of
many	organizations	I	have	worked	with.	The	stories	I	share	around
MusicCorp	are	reflections	of	real	things	I	have	seen,	but	they	haven’t	all
happened	to	the	same	company!
The	Monolith
We’ve
	spoken	about	microservices,	but	microservices	are	most	often	discussed
as	an	architectural	approach	that	is	an	alternative	to	monolithic	architecture.	To
4
--- PAGE 32 ---
more	clearly	distinguish	the	microservice	architecture,	and	to	help	you	better
understand	whether	microservices	are	worth	considering,	I	should	also	discuss
what	exactly	I	mean	by	
monoliths
.
When	I	talk	about	monoliths	throughout	this	book,	I	am	primarily	referring	to	a
unit	of	deployment.	When	all	functionality	in	a	system	must	be	deployed
together,	I	
consider
	it	a	monolith.	Arguably,	multiple	architectures	fit	this
definition,	but	I’m	going	to	discuss	those	I	see	most	often:	the	single-process
monolith,	the	modular	monolith,	and	the	distributed	monolith.
The	Single-Process	Monolith
The
	most	common	example	that	comes	to	mind	when	discussing	monoliths	is	a
system	in	which	all	of	the	code	is	deployed	as	a	
single	process
,	as	in	
Figure	1-6
.
You	may	have	multiple	instances	of	this	process	for	robustness	or	scaling
reasons,	but	fundamentally	all	the	code	is	packed	into	a	single	process.	In	reality,
these	single-process	systems	can	be	simple	distributed	systems	in	their	own	right
because	they	nearly	always	end	up	reading	data	from	or	storing	data	into	a
database,	or	presenting	information	to	web	or	mobile	applications.
--- PAGE 33 ---
Figure	1-6.	
In	a	single-process	monolith,	all	code	is	packaged	into	a	single	process
Although	this	fits	most	people’s	understanding	of	a	classic	monolith,	most
systems	I	encounter	are	somewhat	more	complex	than	this.	You	may	have	two	or
more	monoliths	that	are	tightly	coupled	to	one	another,	potentially	with	some
vendor	software	in	the	mix.
A	classic	single-process	monolithic	deployment	can	make	sense	for	many
organizations.	David	Heinemeier	Hansson,	the	creator	of	Ruby	on	Rails,	has
made	the	case	effectively	that	such	an	architecture	makes	sense	for	smaller
organizations.
	Even	as	the	organization	grows,	however,	the	monolith	can
potentially	grow	with	it,	which	brings	us	to	the	modular	monolith.
5
--- PAGE 34 ---
The	Modular	Monolith
As
	a	subset	of	the	single-process	monolith,	the	
modular	monolith
	is	a	variation
in	which	the	single	process	consists	of	separate	modules.	Each	module	can	be
worked	on	independently,	but	all	still	need	to	be	combined	together	for
deployment,	as	shown	in	
Figure	1-7
.	The	concept	of	breaking	software	into
modules	is	nothing	new;	modular	software	has	its	roots	in	work	done	around
structured	programming	in	the	1970s,	and	even	further	back	than	that.
Nonetheless,	this	is	an	approach	that	I	still	don’t	see	enough	organizations
properly	engage	with.
Figure	1-7.	
In	a	modular	monolith,	the	code	inside	the	process	is	divided	into	modules
For	many	organizations,	the	modular	monolith	can	be	an	excellent	choice.	If	the
module	boundaries	are	well	defined,	it	can	allow	for	a	high	degree	of	parallel
work,	while	avoiding	the	challenges	of	the	more	distributed	microservice
--- PAGE 35 ---
architecture	by	having	a	much	simpler	deployment	topology.	Shopify	is	a	great
example	of	an	
organization
	that	has	used	this	technique	as	an	alternative	to
microservice	decomposition,	and	it	seems	to	work	really	well	for	that	company.
One	of	the	challenges	of	a	modular	monolith	is	that	the	database	tends	to	lack
the	decomposition	we	find	in	the	code	level,	leading	to	significant	challenges	if
you	want	to	pull	apart	the	monolith	in	the	future.	I	have	seen	some	teams	attempt
to	push	the	idea	of	the	modular	monolith	further	by	having	the	database
decomposed	along	the	same	lines	as	the	modules,	as	shown	in	
Figure	1-8
.
Figure	1-8.	
A	modular	monolith	with	a	decomposed	database
The	Distributed	Monolith
A	distributed	system	is	one	in	which	the	failure	of	a	computer	you	didn’t	even
know	existed	can	render	your	own	computer	unusable.
6
7
--- PAGE 36 ---
—
Leslie	Lamport
A
	
distributed	monolith
	is	a	system	that	consists	of	multiple	services,	but	for
whatever	reason,	the	entire	system	must	be	deployed	together.	A	distributed
monolith	might	well	meet	the	definition	of	an	SOA,	but	all	too	often,	it	fails	to
deliver	on	the	promises	of	SOA.	In	my	experience,	a	distributed	monolith	has	all
the	disadvantages	of	a	distributed	system,	
and
	the	disadvantages	of	a	single-
process	monolith,	without	having	enough	of	the	upsides	of	either.	Encountering
a	number	of	distributed	monoliths	in	my	work	has	in	large	part	influenced	my
own	interest	in	microservice	architecture.
Distributed	monoliths	typically	emerge	in	an	environment	in	which	not	enough
focus	was	placed	on	concepts	like	information	hiding	and	cohesion	of	business
functionality
.	Instead,	highly	coupled	architectures	cause	changes	to	ripple
across	service	boundaries,	and	seemingly	innocent	changes	that	appear	to	be
local	in	scope	break	other	parts	of	the	system.
Monoliths	and	Delivery	Contention
As
	more	and	more	people	work	in	the	same	place,	they	get	in	one	another’s	way
—for	example,	different	developers	wanting	to	change	the	same	piece	of	code,
different	teams	wanting	to	push	functionality	live	at	different	times	(or	to	delay
deployments),	and	confusion	around	who	owns	what	and	who	makes	decisions.
A	multitude	of	studies	have	shown	the	challenges	of	confused	lines	of
ownership.
	I	refer	to	this	problem	as	
delivery	contention
.
Having	a	monolith	doesn’t	mean	you	will	definitely	face	the	challenges	of
delivery	contention	any	more	than	having	a	microservice	architecture	means	that
you	won’t	ever	face	the	problem.	But	a	microservice	architecture	does	give	you
more	concrete	boundaries	around	which	ownership	lines	can	be	drawn	in	a
system,	giving	you	much	more	flexibility	when	it	comes	to	reducing	this
problem.
Advantages	of	Monoliths
Some
	monoliths,	such	as	the	single-process	or	modular	monoliths,	have	a	whole
host	of	advantages	too.	Their	much	simpler	deployment	topology	can	avoid
many	of	the	pitfalls	associated	with	distributed	systems.	This	can	result	in	much
8
--- PAGE 37 ---
simpler	developer	workflows,	and	monitoring,	troubleshooting,	and	activities
like	end-to-end	testing	can	be	greatly	simplified	as	well.
Monoliths	can	also	simplify	code	reuse	within	the	monolith	itself.	If	we	want	to
reuse	code	within	a	distributed	system,	we	need	to	decide	whether	we	want	to
copy	code,	break	out	libraries,	or	push	the	shared	functionality	into	a	service.
With	a	monolith,	our	choices	are	much	simpler,	and	many	people	like	that
simplicity—all	the	code	is	there;	just	use	it!
Unfortunately,	people
	have	come	to	view	the	monolith	as	something	to	be
avoided—as	something	inherently	problematic.	I’ve	met	multiple	people	for
whom	the	term	
monolith
	is	synonymous	with	
legacy
.	This	is	a	problem.	A
monolithic	architecture	is	a	choice,	and	a	valid	one	at	that.	I’d	go	further	and	say
that	in	my	opinion	it	is	the	sensible	default	choice	as	an	architectural	style.	In
other	words,	I	am	looking	for	a	reason	to	be	convinced	to	use	microservices,
rather	than	looking	for	a	reason	not	to	use	them.
If	we	fall	into	the	trap	of	systematically	undermining	the	monolith	as	a	viable
option	for	delivering	our	software,	we’re	at	risk	of	not	doing	right	by	ourselves
or	by	the	users	of	our	software.
Enabling	Technology
As
	I	touched	on	earlier,	I	don’t	think	you	need	to	adopt	lots	of	new	technology
when	you	first	start	using	microservices.	In	fact,	that	can	be	counterproductive.
Instead,	as	you	ramp	up	your	microservice	architecture,	you	should	constantly	be
looking	for	issues	caused	by	your	increasingly	distributed	system,	and	then	for
technology	that	might	help.
That	said,	technology	has	played	a	large	part	in	the	adoption	of	microservices	as
a	concept.	Understanding	the	tools	that	are	available	to	help	you	get	the	most	out
of	this	architecture	is	going	to	be	a	key	part	of	making	any	implementation	of
microservices	a	success.	In	fact,	I	would	go	as	far	to	say	that	microservices
require	an	understanding	of	the	supporting	technology	to	such	a	degree	that
previous	distinctions	between	logical	and	physical	architecture	can	be
problematic—if	you	are	involved	in	helping	shape	a	microservice	architecture,
you’ll	need	a	breadth	of	understanding	of	these	two	worlds.
--- PAGE 38 ---
We’ll	be	exploring	a	lot	of	this	technology	in	detail	in	subsequent	chapters,	but
before	that,	let’s	briefly	introduce	some	of	the	enabling	technology	that	might
help	you	if	you	decide	to	make	use	of	microservices.
Log	Aggregation	and	Distributed	Tracing
With
	the	increasing	number	of	processes	you	are	managing,	it	can	be	difficult	to
understand	how	your	system	is	behaving	in	a	production	setting.	This	can	in	turn
make	troubleshooting	much	more	difficult.	We’ll	be	exploring	these	ideas	in
more	depth	in	
Chapter	10
,	but	at	a	bare	minimum,	I	strongly	advocate	the
implementation	of	a	log	aggregation	system	as	a	prerequisite	for	adopting	a
microservice	architecture.
TIP
Be	cautious	about	taking	on	too	much	new	technology	when	you	start	off	with	microservices.
That	said,	a	log	aggregation	tool	is	so	essential	that	you	should	consider	it	a	prerequisite	for
adopting	microservices.
These	systems	allow	you	to	collect	and	aggregate	logs	from	across	all	your
services,	providing	you	a	central	place	from	which	logs	can	be	analyzed,	and
even	made	part	of	an	active	alerting	mechanism.	Many	options	in	this	space
cater	to	numerous	situations.	I’m	a	big	fan	of	
Humio
	for	several	reasons,	but	the
simple	logging	services	provided	by	the	main	public	cloud	vendors	might	be
good	enough	to	get	you	started.
You	can	make	these	log	aggregation	tools	even	more	useful	by	implementing
correlation	IDs,	in	which	a	single	ID	is	used	for	a	related	set	of	service	calls—for
example,	the	chain	of	calls	that	might	be	triggered	due	to	user	interaction.	By
logging	this	ID	as	part	of	each	log	entry,	isolating	the	logs	associated	with	a
given	flow	of	calls	becomes	much	easier,	which	in	turn	makes	troubleshooting
much	easier.
As
	your	system	grows	in	complexity,	it	becomes	essential	to	consider	tools	that
allow	you	to	better	explore	what	your	system	is	doing,	providing	the	ability	to
analyze	traces	across	multiple	services,	detect	bottlenecks,	and	ask	questions	of
your	system	that	you	didn’t	know	you	would	want	to	ask	in	the	first	place.	Open
--- PAGE 39 ---
source	tools	can	provide	some	of	these	features.	One	example	is	
Jaeger
,	which
focuses	on	the	distributed	tracing	side	of	the	equation.
But
	products	like	
Lightstep
	and	
Honeycomb
	(shown	in	
Figure	1-9
)	take	these
ideas	further.	They	represent	a	new	generation	of	tools	that	move	beyond
traditional	monitoring	approaches,	making	it	much	easier	to	explore	the	state	of
your	running	system.	You	might	already	have	more	conventional	tools	in	place,
but	you	really	should	look	at	the	capabilities	these	products	provide.	They’ve
been	built	from	the	ground	up	to	solve	the	sorts	of	problems	that	operators	of
microservice	architectures	have	to	deal	with.
Figure	1-9.	
A	distributed	trace	shown	in	Honeycomb,	allowing	you	to	identify	where	time	is	being	spent	for
operations	that	can	span	multiple	microservices
Containers	and	Kubernetes
Ideally,	you
	want	to	run	each	microservice	instance	in	isolation.	This	ensures
that	issues	in	one	microservice	can’t	affect	another	microservice—for	example,
by	gobbling	up	all	the	CPU.	Virtualization	is	one	way	to	create	isolated
execution	environments	on	existing	hardware,	but	normal	virtualization
techniques	can	be	quite	heavy	when	we	consider	the	size	of	our	microservices.
Containers
,	on	the	other	hand,	provide	a	much	more	lightweight	way	to
provision	isolated	execution	for	service	instances,	resulting	in	faster	spin-up
--- PAGE 40 ---
times	for	new	container	instances,	along	with	being	much	more	cost	effective	for
many	architectures.
After	you	begin	playing	around	with	containers,	you’ll	also	realize	that	you	need
something	to	allow	you	to	manage	these	containers	across	lots	of	underlying
machines.	Container	orchestration	platforms	like	Kubernetes	do	exactly	that,
allowing	you	to	distribute	container	instances	in	such	a	way	as	to	provide	the
robustness	and	throughput	your	service	needs,	while	allowing	you	to	make
efficient	use	of	the	underlying	machines.	In	
Chapter	8
	we’ll	explore	the	concepts
of	operational	isolation,	containers,	and	Kubernetes.
Don’t	feel	the	need	to	rush	to	adopt	Kubernetes,	or	even	containers	for	that
matter.	They	absolutely	offer	significant	advantages	over	more	traditional
deployment	techniques,	but	their	adoption	is	difficult	to	justify	if	you	have	only
a	few	microservices.	After	the	overhead	of	managing	deployment	begins	to
become	a	significant	headache,	start	considering	containerization	of	your	service
and	the	use	of	Kubernetes.	But	if	you	do	end	up	doing	that,	do	your	best	to
ensure	that	someone	else	is	running	the	Kubernetes	cluster	for	you,	perhaps	by
making	use	of	a	managed	service	on	a	public	cloud	provider.	Running	your	own
Kubernetes	cluster	can	be	a	significant	amount	of	work!
Streaming
Although
	with	microservices	we	are	moving	away	from	monolithic	databases,
we	still	need	to	find	ways	to	share	data	between	microservices.	This	is
happening	at	the	same	time	that	organizations	are	wanting	to	move	away	from
batch	reporting	operations	and	toward	more	real-time	feedback,	allowing	them
to	react	more	quickly.	Products	that	allow	for	the	easy	streaming	and	processing
of	what	can	often	be	large	volumes	of	data	have	therefore	become	popular	with
people	using	microservice	architectures.
For
	many	people,	
Apache	Kafka
	has	become	the	de	facto	choice	for	streaming
data	in	a	microservice	environment,	and	for	good	reason.	Capabilities	such	as
message	permanence,	compaction,	and	the	ability	to	scale	to	handle	large
volumes	of	messages	can	be	incredibly	useful.	Kafka	has	started	adding	stream-
processing	capabilities	in	the	form	of	KSQLDB,	but	you	can	also	use	it	with
dedicated	stream-processing	solutions	like	
Apache	Flink
.	
Debezium
	is	an	open
source	tool	developed	to	help	stream	data	from	
existing
	datasources	over	Kafka,
--- PAGE 41 ---
helping	ensure	that	traditional	datasources	can	become	part	of	a	stream-based
architecture.	In	
Chapter	4
	we’ll	look	at	how	streaming	technology	can	play	a	part
in	microservice	integration.
Public	Cloud	and	Serverless
Public
	cloud	providers,	or	more	specifically	the	main	three	providers—Google
Cloud,	Microsoft	Azure,	and	Amazon	Web	Services	(AWS)—offer	a	huge	array
of	managed	services	and	deployment	options	for	managing	your	application.	As
your	microservice	architecture	grows,	more	and	more	work	will	be	pushed	into
the	operational	space.	Public	cloud	providers	offer	a	host	of	managed	services,
from	managed	
database
	instances	or	Kubernetes	clusters	to	message	brokers	or
distributed	filesystems.	By	making	use	of	these	managed	services,	you	are
offloading	a	large	amount	of	this	work	to	a	third	party	that	is	arguably	better	able
to	deal	with	these	tasks.
Of
	particular	interest	among	the	public	cloud	offerings	are	the	products	that	sit
under	the	banner	of	
serverless
.	These	products	hide	the	underlying	machines,
allowing	you	to	work	at	a	higher	level	of	abstraction.	Examples	of	serverless
products	include	message	brokers,	storage	solutions,	and	databases.	Function
	as
a	Service	(FaaS)	platforms	are	of	special	interest	because	they	provide	a	nice
abstraction	around	the	deployment	of	code.	Rather	than	worrying	about	how
many	servers	you	need	to	run	your	service,	you	just	deploy	your	code	and	let	the
underlying	platform	handle	spinning	up	instances	of	your	code	on	demand.	We’ll
look	at	serverless	in	more	detail	in	
Chapter	8
.
Advantages	of	Microservices
The
	advantages	of	microservices	are	many	and	varied.	Many	of	these	benefits
can	be	laid	at	the	door	of	any	distributed	system.	Microservices,	however,	tend	to
achieve	these	benefits	to	a	greater	degree	primarily	because	they	take	a	more
opinionated	stance	in	the	way	service	boundaries	are	defined.	By	combining	the
concepts	of	information	hiding	and	domain-driven	design	with	the	power	of
distributed	systems,	microservices	can	help	deliver	significant	gains	over	other
forms	of	distributed	
architectures.
--- PAGE 42 ---
Technology	Heterogeneity
With
	a	system	composed	of	multiple,	collaborating	microservices,	we	can	decide
to	use	different	technologies	inside	each	one.	This	allows	us	to	pick	the	right	tool
for	each	job	rather	than	having	to	select	a	more	standardized,	one-size-fits-all
approach	that	often	ends	up	being	the	lowest	common	denominator.
If	one	part	of	our	system	needs	to	improve	its	performance,	we	might	decide	to
use	a	different	technology	stack	that	is	better	able	to	achieve	the	required
performance	levels.	We	might	also	decide	that	the	way	we	store	our	data	needs
to	change	for	different	parts	of	our	system.	For	example,	for	a	social	network,	we
might	store	our	users’	interactions	in	a	graph-oriented	database	to	reflect	the
highly	interconnected	nature	of	a	social	graph,	but	perhaps	the	posts	the	users
make	could	be	stored	in	a	document-oriented	data	store,	giving	rise	to	a
heterogeneous	architecture	like	the	one	shown	in	
Figure	1-10
.
Figure	1-10.	
Microservices	can	allow	you	to	more	easily	embrace	different	technologies
With	microservices,	we	are	also	able	to	more	quickly	adopt	technologies	and	to
understand	how	new	advancements	might	help	us.	One	of	the	biggest	barriers	to
trying	out	and	adopting	a	new	technology	is	the	risks	associated	with	it.	With	a
monolithic	application,	if	I	want	to	try	a	new	programming	language,	database,
or	framework,	any	change	will	affect	much	of	my	system.	With	a	system
consisting	of	multiple	services,	I	have	multiple	new	places	to	try	out	a	new	piece
of	technology.	I	can	pick	a	microservice	with	perhaps	the	lowest	risk	and	use	the
technology	there,	knowing	that	I	can	limit	any	potential	negative	impact.	Many
--- PAGE 43 ---
organizations	find	this	ability	to	more	quickly	absorb	new	technologies	to	be	a
real	advantage.
Embracing	multiple	technologies	doesn’t	come	without	overhead,	of	course.
Some	organizations	choose	to	place	some	constraints	on	
language
	choices.
Netflix	and	Twitter,	for	example,	mostly	use	the	Java	Virtual	Machine	(JVM)	as
a	platform	because	those	companies	have	a	very	good	understanding	of	the
reliability	and	performance	of	that	system.	They	also	develop	libraries	and
tooling	for	the	JVM	that	make	operating	at	scale	much	easier,	but	the	reliance	on
JVM-specific	libraries	makes	things	more	difficult	for	non-Java-based	services
or	clients.	But	neither	Twitter	nor	Netflix	uses	only	one	technology	stack	for	all
jobs.
The	fact	that	internal	technology	implementation	is	hidden	from	consumers	can
also	make	upgrading	technologies	easier.	Your	entire	microservice	architecture
might	be	based	on	Spring	Boot,	for	example,	but	you	could	change	JVM	version
or	framework	versions	for	just	one	microservice,	making	it	easier	to	manage	the
risk	
of	upgrades.
Robustness
A
	key	concept	in	improving	the	robustness	of	your	application	is	the	bulkhead.	A
component	of	a	system	may	fail,	but	as	long	as	that	failure	doesn’t	cascade,	you
can	isolate
	the	problem,	and	the	rest	of	the	system	can	carry	on	working.	Service
boundaries
	become	your	obvious	bulkheads.	In	a	monolithic	service,	if	the
service	fails,	everything	stops	working.	With	a	monolithic	system,	we	can	run	on
multiple	machines	to	reduce	our	chance	of	failure,	but	with	microservices,	we
can	build	systems	that	handle	the	total	failure	of	some	of	the	constituent	services
and	degrade	functionality	accordingly.
We	do	need	to	be	careful,	however.	To	ensure	that	our	microservice	systems	can
properly	embrace	this	improved	robustness,	we	need	to	understand	the	new
sources	of	failure	that	distributed	systems	have	to	deal	with.	Networks	can	and
will	fail,	as	will	machines.	We	need	to	know	how	to	handle	such	failures	and	the
impact	(if	any)	those	failures	will	have	on	the	end	users	of	our	software.	I	have
certainly	worked	with	teams	who	have	ended	up	with	a	less	robust	system	after
their	migration	to	microservices	due	to	their	not	taking	these	concerns	seriously
enough.
--- PAGE 44 ---
Scaling
With
	a	large,	monolithic	service,	we	need	to	scale	everything	together.	Perhaps
one	small	part	of	our	overall	system	is	constrained	in	performance,	but	if	that
behavior	is	locked	up	in	a	giant	monolithic	application,	we	need	to	handle
scaling	everything	as	a	piece.	With	smaller	services,	we	can	scale	just	those
services	that	need	scaling,	allowing	us	to	run	other	parts	of	the	system	on
smaller,	less	powerful	hardware,	as	illustrated	in	
Figure	1-11
.
Figure	1-11.	
You	can	target	scaling	at	just	the	microservices	that	need	it
Gilt,	an	online	fashion	retailer,	adopted	microservices	for	this	exact	reason.
Having	started	in	2007	with	a	monolithic	Rails	application,	by	2009	Gilt’s
system	was	unable	to	cope	with	the	load	being	placed	on	it.	By	splitting	out	core
parts	of	its	system,	Gilt	was	better	able	to	deal	with	its	traffic	spikes,	and	today	it
has	more	than	450	microservices,	each	one	running	on	multiple	separate
machines.
When
	embracing	on-demand	provisioning	systems	like	those	provided	by	AWS,
we	can	even	apply	this	scaling	on	demand	for	those	pieces	that	need	it.	This
allows	us	to	control	our	costs	more	effectively.	It’s	not	often	that	an	architectural
--- PAGE 45 ---
approach	can	be	so	closely	correlated	to	an	almost	immediate	cost	savings.
Ultimately,	we	can	scale	our	applications	in	a	multitude	of	ways,	and
microservices	can	be	an	effective	part	of	this.	We’ll	look	at	the	scaling	of
microservices	in	more	detail	in	
Chapter	13
.
Ease	of	Deployment
A
	one-line	change	to	a	million-line	monolithic	application	requires	the	entire
application	to	be	deployed	in	order	to	release	the	change.	That	could	be	a	large-
impact,	high-risk	deployment.	In	practice,	deployments	such	as	these	end	up
happening	infrequently	because	of	understandable	fear.	Unfortunately,	this
means	that	our	changes	continue	to	build	up	between	releases,	until	the	new
version	of	our	application	entering	production	has	masses	of	changes.	And	the
bigger	the	delta	between	releases,	the	higher	the	risk	that	we’ll	get	something
wrong!
With	microservices,	we	can	make	a	change	to	a	single	service	and	deploy	it
independently	of	the	rest	of	the	system.	This	allows	us	to	get	our	code	deployed
more	quickly.	If	a	problem	does	occur,	it	can	be	quickly	isolated	to	an	individual
service,	making	fast	rollback	easy	to	achieve.	It	also	means	that	we	can	get	our
new	functionality	out	to	customers	more	quickly.	This	is	one	of	the	main	reasons
organizations	like	Amazon	and	Netflix	use	these	architectures—to	ensure	that
they	remove	as	many	impediments	as	possible	to	getting	software	out	the	door.
Organizational	Alignment
Many
	of	us	have	experienced	the	problems	associated	with	large	teams	and	large
codebases.	These	problems	can	be	exacerbated	when	the	team	is	distributed.	We
also	know	that	smaller	teams	working	on	smaller	codebases	tend	to	be	more
productive.
Microservices	allow	us	to	better	align	our	architecture	to	our	organization,
helping	us	minimize	the	number	of	people	working	on	any	one	codebase	to	hit
the	sweet	spot	of	team	size	and	productivity.	Microservices	also	allow	us	to
change	ownership	of	services	as	the	organization	changes—enabling	us	to
maintain	the	alignment	between	architecture	and	organization	in	the	future.

================================================================================
Ch4-5 communication styles and implementing communication (PDF pages 125-195)
================================================================================

--- PAGE 125 ---
service	is	telling	the	client	that	there	is	something	wrong	with	the	original
request.	As	such,	it’s	probably	something	you	should	give	up	on—is	there	any
point	retrying	a	
404 Not Found
,	for	example?	The	500	series	response	codes
relate	to	downstream	issues,	a	subset	of	which	indicate	to	the	client	that	the	issue
might	be	temporary.	A	
503 Service Unavailable
,	for	example,	indicates	that
the	downstream	server	is	unable	to	handle	the	request,	but	it	may	be	a	temporary
state,	in	which	case	an	upstream	client	might	decide	to	retry	the	request.	On	the
other	hand,	if	a	client	receives	a	
501 Not Implemented
	response,	a	retry	is
unlikely	to	help	much.
Whether	or	not	you	pick	an	HTTP-based	protocol	for	communication	between
microservices,	if	you	have	a	rich	set	of	semantics	around	the	nature	of	the	error,
you’ll	make	it	easier	for	clients	to	carry	out	compensating	actions,	which	in	turn
should	help	you	build	more	robust	systems.
Technology	for	Inter-Process	Communication:
So	Many	Choices
And	in	a	world	where	we	have	too	many	choices	and	too	little	time,	the
obvious	thing	to	do	is	just	ignore	stuff.
—
Seth	Godin
The
	range	of	technology	available	to	us	for	inter-process	communication	is	vast.
As	a	result,	we	can	often	be	overburdened	with	choice.	I	often	find	that	people
gravitate	to	technology	that	is	familiar	to	them,	or	perhaps	just	to	the	latest	hot
technology	they	learned	about	from	a	conference.	The	problem	with	this	is	that
when	you	buy	into	a	specific	technology	choice,	you	are	often	buying	into	a	set
of	ideas	and	constraints	that	come	along	for	the	ride.	These	constraints	might	not
be	the	right	ones	for	you—and	the	mindset	behind	the	technology	may	not
actually	line	up	with	the	problem	you	are	trying	to	solve.
If	you’re	trying	to	build	a	website,	single	page	app	technology	like	Angular	or
React	is	a	bad	fit.	Likewise,	trying	to	use	Kafka	for	request-response	really	isn’t
a	good	idea,	as	it	was	designed	for	more	event-based	interactions	(topics	we’ll
get	to	in	just	a	moment).	And	yet	I	see	technology	used	in	the	wrong	place	time
and	time	again.	People	pick	the	shiny	new	tech	(like	microservices!)	without
--- PAGE 126 ---
considering	whether	it	actually	fits	their	problem.
Thus	when	it	comes	to	the	bewildering	array	of	technology	available	to	us	for
communication	between	microservices,	I	think	it’s	important	to	talk	first	about
the	style	of	communication	you	want,	and	only	then	look	for	the	right
technology	to	implement	that	style.	With	that	in	mind,	let’s	take	a	look	at	a
model	I’ve	been	using	for	several	years	to	help	distinguish	between	the	different
approaches	for	microservice-to-microservice	communication,	which	in	turn	can
help	you	filter	the	technology	options	you’ll	want	to	look	at.
Styles	of	Microservice	Communication
In
	
Figure	4-1
	we	see	an	outline	for	the	model	I	use	for	thinking	about	different
styles	of	communication.	This	model	is	not	meant	to	be	entirely	exhaustive	(I’m
not	trying	to	present	a	grand	unified	theory	of	inter-process	communication
here),	but	it	provides	a	good	high-level	overview	for	considering	the	different
styles	of	communication	that	are	most	widely	used	for	microservice
architectures.
Figure	4-1.	
Different	styles	of	inter-microservice	communication	along	with	example	implementing
technologies
We’ll	look	at	the	different	elements	of	this	model	in	more	detail	shortly,	but	first
I’d	like	to	briefly	outline	them:
Synchronous	blocking
A	microservice	makes	a	call	to	another	microservice	and	blocks	operation
waiting	for	the	response.
--- PAGE 127 ---
Asynchronous	nonblocking
The	microservice	emitting	a	call	is	able	to	carry	on	processing	whether	or	not
the	call	is	received.
Request-response
A	microservice	sends	a	request	to	another	microservice	asking	for	something
to	be	done.	It	expects	to	receive	a	response	informing	it	of	the	result.
Event-driven
Microservices	emit	events,	which	other	microservices	consume	and	react	to
accordingly.	The	microservice	emitting	the	event	is	unaware	of	which
microservices,	if	any,	consume	the	events	it	emits.
Common	data
Not	often	seen	as	a	communication	style,	microservices	collaborate	via	some
shared	data	source.
When	using	this	model	to	help	teams	decide	on	the	right	approach,	I	spend	a	lot
of	time	understanding	the	context	in	which	they	are	operating.	Their	needs	in
terms	of	reliable	communication,	acceptable	latency,	and	volume	of
communication	are	all	going	to	play	a	part	in	making	a	technology	choice.	But	in
general,	I	tend	to	start	with	deciding	whether	a	request-response	or	an	event-
driven	style	of	collaboration	is	more	appropriate	for	the	given	situation.	If	I’m
looking	at	request-response,	then	both	synchronous	and	asynchronous
implementations	are	still	available	to	me,	so	I	have	a	
second
	choice	to	make.	If
picking	an	event-driven	collaboration	style,	however,	my	implementation
choices	will	be	limited	to	nonblocking	asynchronous	choices.
A	host	of	other	considerations	come	into	play	when	picking	the	right	technology
that	go	beyond	the	style	of	communication—for	example,	the	need	for	lower-
latency	communication,	security-related	aspects,	or	the	ability	to	scale.	It’s
unlikely	that	you	can	make	a	reasoned	technology	choice	without	taking	into
account	the	requirements	(and	constraints)	of	your	specific	problem	space.	When
we	look	at	technology	options	in	
Chapter	5
,	we’ll	discuss	some	of	these	issues.
--- PAGE 128 ---
Mix	and	Match
It’s
	important	to	note	that	a	microservice	architecture	as	a	whole	may	have	a	mix
of	styles	of	collaboration,	and	this	is	typically	the	norm.	Some	interactions	just
make	sense	as	request-response,	while	others	make	sense	as	event-driven.	In
fact,	it’s	common	for	a	single	microservice	to	implement	more	than	one	form	of
collaboration.	Consider	an	
Order
	microservice	that	exposes	a	request-response
API	that	allows	for	orders	to	be	placed	or	changed	and	then	fires	events	when
these	changes	are	made.
With	that	said,	let’s	look	at	these	different	styles	of	communication	in	more
detail.
Pattern:	Synchronous	Blocking
With
	a	synchronous	blocking	call,	a	microservice	sends	a	call	of	some	kind	to	a
downstream	process	(likely	another	microservice)	and	blocks	until	the	call	has
completed,	and	potentially	until	a	response	has	been	received.	In	
Figure	4-2
,	the
Order Processor
	sends	a	call	to	the	
Loyalty
	microservice	to	inform	it	that
some	points	should	be	added	to	a	customer’s	account.
Figure	4-2.	
Order Processor
	sends	a	synchronous	call	to	the	
Loyalty
	microservice,	blocks,	and	waits	for
a	response
Typically,	a	synchronous	blocking	call	is	one	that	is	waiting	for	a	response	from
the	downstream	process.	This	may	be	because	the	result	of	the	call	is	needed	for
some	further	operation,	or	just	because	it	wants	to	make	sure	the	call	worked	and
to	carry	out	some	sort	of	retry	if	not.	As	a	result,	virtually	every	synchronous
blocking	call	I	see	would	also	constitute	being	a	request-response	call,
something	we’ll	look	at	shortly.
--- PAGE 129 ---
Advantages
There	is	something	simple	and	familiar	about	a	blocking,	synchronous	call.
Many	of	us	learned	to	program	in	a	fundamentally	synchronous	style—reading	a
piece	of	code	like	a	script,	with	each	line	executing	in	turn,	and	with	the	next
line	of	code	waiting	its	turn	to	do	something.	Most	of	the	situations	in	which	you
would	have	used	inter-process	calls	were	probably	done	in	a	synchronous,
blocking	style—running	a	SQL	query	on	a	database,	for	example,	or	making	an
HTTP	request	of	a	downstream	API.
When	moving	from	a	less	distributed	architecture,	like	that	of	a	single	process
monolith,	sticking	with	those	ideas	that	are	familiar	when	there	is	so	much	else
going	on	that	is	brand-new	can	make	sense.
Disadvantages
The	main	challenge	with	synchronous	calls	is	the	inherent	temporal	coupling
that	occurs,	a	topic	we	explored	briefly	in	
Chapter	2
.	When	the	
Order
Processor
	makes	a	call	to	
Loyalty
	in	the	preceding	example,	the	
Loyalty
microservice	needs	to	be	reachable	for	the	call	to	work.	If	the	
Loyalty
microservice	is	unavailable,	then	the	call	will	fail,	and	
Order Processor
	needs
to	work	out	what	kind	of	compensating	action	to	carry	out—this	might	involve
an	immediate	retry,	buffering	the	call	to	retry	later,	or	perhaps	giving	up
altogether.
This	coupling	is	two-way.	With	this	style	of	integration,	the	response	is	typically
sent	over	the	same	inbound	network	connection	to	the	upstream	microservice.	So
if	the	
Loyalty
	microservice	wants	to	send	a	response	back	to	
Order
Processor
,	but	the	upstream	instance	has	subsequently	died,	the	response	will
get	lost.	The	temporal	coupling	here	isn’t	just	between	two	microservices;	it’s
between	two	specific	instances	of	these	microservices.
As	the	sender	of	the	call	is	blocking	and	waiting	for	the	downstream
microservice	to	respond,	it	also	follows	that	if	the	downstream	microservice
responds	slowly,	or	if	there	is	an	issue	with	the	latency	of	the	network,	then	the
sender	of	the	call	will	be	blocked	for	a	prolonged	period	of	time	waiting	for	a
response.	If	the	
Loyalty
	microservice	is	under	significant	load	and	is	responding
slowly	to	requests,	this	in	turn	will	cause	the	
Order Processor
	to	respond
--- PAGE 130 ---
slowly.
Thus	the	use	of	synchronous	calls	can	make	a	system	vulnerable	to	cascading
issues	caused	by	downstream	outages	more	readily	than	can	the	use	of
asynchronous	calls.
Where	to	Use	It
For	simple	microservice	architectures,	I	don’t	have	a	massive	problem	with	the
use	of	synchronous,	blocking	calls.	Their	familiarity	for	many	people	is	an
advantage	when	coming	to	grips	with	distributed	systems.
For	me,	these	types	of	calls	begin	to	be	problematic	when	you	start	having	more
chains	of	calls—in	
Figure	4-3
,	for	instance,	we	have	an	example	flow	from
MusicCorp
,	where	we	are	checking	a	payment	for	potentially	fraudulent	activity.
The	
Order Processor
	calls	the	
Payment
	service	to	take	payment.	The	
Payment
service	in	turn	wants	to	check	with	the	
Fraud Detection
	microservice	as	to
whether	or	not	this	should	be	allowed.	The	
Fraud Detection
	microservice	in
turn	needs	to	get	information	from	the	
Customer
	microservice.
Figure	4-3.	
Checking	for	potentially	fraudulent	behavior	as	part	of	order	processing	flow
If	all	of	these	calls	are	synchronous	and	blocking,	there	are	a	number	of	issues
we	might	face.	An	issue	in	any	of	the	four	involved	microservices,	or	in	the
network	calls	between	them,	could	cause	the	whole	operation	to	fail.	This	is
quite	aside	from	the	fact	that	these	kinds	of	long	chains	can	cause	significant
--- PAGE 131 ---
resource	contention
.	Behind	the	scenes,	the	
Order Processor
	likely	has	a
network	connection	open	waiting	to	hear	back	from	
Payment
.	
Payment
	in	turn
has	a	network	connection	open	waiting	for	a	response	from	
Fraud Detection
,
and	so	on.	Having	a	lot	of	connections	that	need	to	be	kept	open	can	have	an
impact	on	the	running	system—you	are	much	more	likely	to	experience	issues	in
which	you	run	out	of	available	connections	or	suffer	from	increased	network
congestion	as	a	result.
To	improve	this	situation,	we	could	reexamine	the	interactions	between	the
microservices	in	the	first	place.	For	example,	maybe	we	take	the	use	of	
Fraud
Detection
	out	of	the	main	purchase	flow,	as	shown	in	
Figure	4-4
,	and	instead
have	it	run	in	the	background.	If	it	finds	a	problem	with	a	specific	customer,
their	records	are	updated	accordingly,	and	this	is	something	that	could	be
checked	earlier	in	the	payment	process.	Effectively,	this	means	we’re	doing
some	of	this	work	in	parallel.	By	reducing	the	length	of	the	call	chain,	we’ll	see
the	overall	latency	of	the	operation	improve,	and	we’ll	take	one	of	our
microservices	(
Fraud Detection
)	out	of	the	critical	path	for	the	purchase	flow,
giving	us	one	fewer	dependency	to	worry	about	for	what	is	a	critical	operation.
--- PAGE 132 ---
Figure	4-4.	
Moving	
Fraud Detection
	to	a	background	process	can	reduce	concerns	around	the	length	of
the	call	chain
Of	course,	we	could	also	replace	the	use	of	blocking	calls	with	some	style	of
nonblocking	interaction	without	changing	the	workflow	here,	an	approach	we’ll
explore	next.
Pattern:	Asynchronous	Nonblocking
With
	asynchronous	communication,	the	act	of	sending	a	call	out	over	the
network	doesn’t	block	the	microservice	issuing	the	call.	It	is	able	to	carry	on
with	any	other	processing	without	having	to	wait	for	a	response.	Nonblocking
asynchronous	communication	comes	in	many	forms,	but	we’ll	be	looking	in
more	detail	at	the	three	most	common	styles	I	see	in	microservice	architecture.
They	are:
--- PAGE 133 ---
Communication	through	common	data
The	upstream	microservice	changes	some	common	data,	which	one	or	more
microservices	later	make	use	of.
Request-response
A	microservice	sends	a	request	to	another	microservice	asking	it	to	do
something.	When	the	requested	operation	completes,	whether	successfully	or
not,	the	upstream	microservice	receives	the	response.	Specifically,	
any
instance	of	the	upstream	microservice	should	be	able	to	handle	the	response.
Event-driven	interaction
A	microservice	broadcasts	an	event,	which	can	be	thought	of	as	a	factual
statement	about	something	that	has	happened.	Other	microservices	can	listen
for	the	events	they	are	interested	in	and	react	accordingly.
Advantages
With	nonblocking	asynchronous	communication,	the	microservice	making	the
initial	call	and	the	microservice	(or	microservices)	receiving	the	call	are
decoupled	temporarily.	The	microservices	that	receive	the	call	do	not	need	to	be
reachable	at	the	same	time	the	call	is	made.	This	means	we	avoid	the	concerns	of
temporal	decoupling	that	we	discussed	in	
Chapter	2
	(see	
“A	Brief	Note	on
Temporal	Coupling”
).
This	style	of	communication	is	also	beneficial	if	the	functionality	being	triggered
by	a	call	will	take	a	long	time	to	process.	Let’s	come	back	to	our	example	of
MusicCorp,	and	specifically	the	process	of	sending	out	a	package.	In	
Figure	4-5
,
the	
Order Processor
	has	taken	payment	and	has	decided	that	it	is	time	to
dispatch	the	package,	so	it	sends	a	call	to	the	
Warehouse
	microservice.	The
process	of	finding	the	CDs,	taking	them	off	the	shelf,	packaging	them	up,	and
having	them	picked	up	could	take	many	hours,	and	potentially	even	days,
depending	on	how	the	actual	dispatch	process	works.	It	makes	sense,	therefore,
for	the	
Order Processor
	to	issue	a	nonblocking	asynchronous	call	to	the
Warehouse
	and	have	the	
Warehouse
	call	back	later	to	inform	the	
Order
Processor
	of	its	progress.	This	is	a	form	of	asynchronous	request-response
--- PAGE 134 ---
communication.
Figure	4-5.	
The	
Order Processor
	kicks	off	the	process	to	package	and	ship	an	order,	which	is	done	in	an
asynchronous	fashion
If	we	tried	doing	something	similar	with	synchronous	blocking	calls,	then	we’d
have	to	restructure	the	interactions	between	
Order Processor
	and	
Warehouse
—it	wouldn’t	be	feasible	for	
Order Processor
	to	open	a	connection,	send	a
request,	block	any	further	operations	in	calling	the	thread,	and	wait	for	a
response	for	what	might	be	hours	or	days.
Disadvantages
The	main	downsides	of	nonblocking	asynchronous	communication,	relative	to
blocking	synchronous	communication,	are	the	level	of	complexity	and	the	range
of	choice.	As	we’ve	already	outlined,	there	are	different	styles	of	asynchronous
communication	to	choose	from—which	one	is	right	for	you?	When	we	start
digging	into	how	these	different	styles	of	communication	are	implemented,	there
is	a	potentially	bewildering	list	of	technology	we	could	look	at.
If	asynchronous	communication	doesn’t	map	to	your	mental	models	of
--- PAGE 135 ---
computing,	adopting	an	asynchronous	style	of	communication	will	be
challenging	at	first.	And	as	we’ll	explore	further	when	we	look	in	detail	at	the
various	styles	of	asynchronous	communication,	there	are	a	lot	of	different,
interesting	ways	in	which	you	can	get	yourself	into	a	
lot
	of	trouble.
ASYNC/AWAIT	AND	WHEN	ASYNCHRONOUS	IS	STILL
BLOCKING
As
	with	many	areas	of	computing,	we	can	use	the	same	term	in	different
contexts	to	have	very	different	meanings.	A	style	of	programming	that
appears	to	be	especially	popular	is	the	use	of	constructs	like	async/await	to
work	with	a	potentially	asynchronous	source	of	data	but	in	a	blocking,
synchronous	style.
In	
Example	4-1
,	we	see	a	very	simple	JavaScript	example	of	this	in	action.
The	currency	exchange	rates	fluctuate	frequently	through	the	day,	and	we
receive	these	via	a	message	broker.	We	define	a	
Promise
.	Generically,	a
promise	is	something	that	will	resolve	to	a	state	at	some	point	in	the	future.
In	our	case,	our	
eurToGbp
	will	eventually	resolve	to	being	the	next	euro-to-
GBP	exchange	rate.
Example	4-1.	
An	example	of	working	with	a	potentially
asynchronous	call	in	a	blocking,	synchronous	fashion
async
 
function
 
f
(
)
 
{
  
let
 
eurToGbp
 
=
 
new
 
Promise
(
(
resolve
,
 
reject
)
 
=>
 
{
    
//code to fetch latest exchange rate between EUR and GBP
    
...
  
}
)
;
  
var
 
latestRate
 
=
 
await
 
eurToGbp
;
 
  
process
(
latestRate
)
;
 
}
Wait	until	the	latest	EUR-to-GBP	exchange	rate	is	fetched.
Won’t	run	until	the	promise	is	fulfilled.
When	we	reference	
eurToGbp
	using	
await
,	we	block	until	
latestRate
’s
state	is	fulfilled—
process
	isn’t	reached	until	we	resolve	the	state	of
eurToGbp
.
3
--- PAGE 136 ---
Even	though	our	exchange	rates	are	being	received	in	an	asynchronous
fashion,	the	use	of	
await
	in	this	context	means	we	are	
blocking
	until	the
state	of	
latestRate
	is	resolved.	So	even	if	the	underlying	technology	we	are
using	to	get	the	rate	could	be	considered	asynchronous	in	nature	(for
example,	waiting	for	the	rate),	from	the	point	of	our	code,	this	is	inherently	a
synchronous,	blocking	interaction.
Where	to	Use	It
Ultimately,	when	considering	whether	asynchronous	communication	is	right	for
you,	you	also	have	to	consider	which	
type
	of	asynchronous	communication	you
want	to	pick,	as	each	type	has	its	own	trade-offs.	In	general,	though,	there	are
some	specific	use	cases	that	would	have	me	reaching	for	some	form	of
asynchronous	communication.	Long-running	processes	are	an	obvious
candidate,	as	we	explored	in	
Figure	4-5
.	Also,	situations	in	which	you	have	long
call	chains	that	you	can’t	easily	restructure	could	be	a	good	candidate.	We’ll	dive
deeper	into	this	when	we	look	at	three	of	the	most	common	forms	of
asynchronous	communication—request-response	calls,	event-driven
communication,	and	communication	through	common	data.
Pattern:	Communication	Through	Common	Data
A
	style	of	communication	that	spans	a	multitude	of	implementations	is
communication	through	common	data.	This	pattern	is	used	when	one
microservice	puts	data	into	a	defined	location,	and	another	microservice	(or
potentially	multiple	microservices)	then	makes	use	of	the	data.	It	can	be	as
simple	as	one	microservice	dropping	a	file	in	a	location,	and	at	some	point	later
on	another	microservice	picks	up	that	file	and	does	something	with	it.	This
integration	style	is	fundamentally	asynchronous	in	nature.
An	example	of	this	style	can	be	seen	in	
Figure	4-6
,	where	the	
New Product
Importer
	creates	a	file	that	will	then	be	read	by	the	downstream	
Inventory
	and
Catalog
	
microservices.
--- PAGE 137 ---
Figure	4-6.	
One	microservice	writes	out	a	file	that	other	microservices	make	use	of
This	pattern	is	in	some	ways	the	most	common	general	inter-process
communication	pattern	that	you’ll	see,	and	yet	we	sometimes	fail	to	see	it	as	a
communication	pattern	at	all—I	think	largely	because	the	communication
between	processes	is	often	so	indirect	as	to	be	hard	to	spot.
Implementation
To	implement	this	pattern,	you	need	some	sort	of	persistent	store	for	the	data.	A
filesystem	in	many	cases	can	be	enough.	I’ve	built	many	systems	that	just
periodically	scan	a	filesystem,	note	the	presence	of	a	new	file,	and	react	on	it
accordingly.	You	could	use	some	sort	of	robust	distributed	memory	store	as	well,
of	course.	It’s	worth	noting	that	any	downstream	microservice	that	is	going	to	act
on	this	data	will	need	its	own	mechanism	to	identify	that	new	data	is	available—
polling	is	a	frequent	solution	to	this	problem.
Two	common	examples	of	this	pattern	are	the	data	lake	and	the	data	warehouse.
In	both	cases,	these	solutions	are	typically	designed	to	help	process	large
volumes	of	data,	but	arguably	they	exist	at	opposite	ends	of	the	spectrum
--- PAGE 138 ---
regarding	coupling.	With	a	data	lake,	sources	upload	raw	data	in	whatever
format	they	see	fit,	and	downstream	consumers	of	this	raw	data	are	expected	to
know	how	to	process	the	information.	With	a	data	warehouse,	the	warehouse
itself	is	a	structured	data	store.	Microservices	pushing	data	to	the	data	warehouse
need	to	know	the	structure	of	the	data	warehouse—if	the	structure	changes	in	a
backward-incompatible	way,	then	these	producers	will	need	to	be	updated.
With	both	the	data	warehouse	and	the	data	lake,	the	assumption	is	that	the	flow
of	information	is	in	a	single	direction.	One	microservice	publishes	data	to	the
common	data	store,	and	downstream	consumers	read	that	data	and	carry	out
appropriate	actions.	This	unidirectional	flow	can	make	it	easier	to	reason	about
the	flow	of	
information
.	A	more	problematic	implementation	would	be	the	use	of
a	shared	database	in	which	multiple	microservices	both	read	and	write	to	the
same	data	store,	an	example	of	which	we	discussed	in	
Chapter	2
	when	we
explored	common	coupling—
Figure	4-7
	shows	both	
Order Processor
	and
Warehouse
	updating	the	same	record.
Figure	4-7.	
An	example	of	common	coupling	in	which	both	
Order Processor
	and	
Warehouse
	are	updating
the	same	order	record
Advantages
This	pattern	can	be	implemented	very	simply,	using	commonly	understood
--- PAGE 139 ---
technology.	If	you	can	read	or	write	to	a	file	or	read	and	write	to	a	database,	you
can	use	this	pattern.	The	use	of	prevalent	and	well-understood	technology	also
enables	interoperability	between	different	types	of	systems,	including	older
mainframe	applications	or	customizable	off-the-shelf	(COTS)	software	products.
Data	volumes	are	also	less	of	a	concern	here—if	you’re	sending	lots	of	data	in
one	big	go,	this	pattern	can	work	well.
Disadvantages
Downstream	consuming	microservices	will	typically	be	aware	that	there	is	new
data	to	process	via	some	sort	of	polling	mechanism,	or	else	perhaps	through	a
periodically	triggered	timed	job.	That	means	that	this	mechanism	is	unlikely	to
be	useful	in	low-latency	situations.	You	can	of	course	combine	this	pattern	with
some	other	sort	of	call	informing	a	downstream	microservice	that	new	data	is
available.	For	example,	I	could	write	a	file	to	a	shared	filesystem	and	then	send	a
call	to	the	interested	microservice	informing	it	that	there	is	new	data	that	it	may
want.	This	can	close	the	gap	between	data	being	published	and	data	being
processed.	In	general,	though,	if	you’re	using	this	pattern	for	very	large	volumes
of	data,	it’s	less	likely	that	low	latency	is	high	on	your	list	of	requirements.	If
you	are	interested	in	sending	larger	volumes	of	data	and	having	them	processed
more	in	“real	time,”	then	using	some	sort	of	streaming	technology	like	Kafka
would	be	a	better	fit.
Another	big	disadvantage,	and	something	that	should	be	fairly	obvious	if	you
remember	back	to	our	exploration	of	common	coupling	in	
Figure	4-7
,	is	that	the
common	data	store	becomes	a	potential	source	of	coupling.	If	that	data	store
changes	structure	in	some	way,	it	can	break	communication	between
microservices.
The	robustness	of	the	communication	will	also	come	down	to	the	robustness	of
the	underlying	data	store.	This	isn’t	a	disadvantage	strictly	speaking,	but	it’s
something	to	be	aware	of.	If	you’re	dropping	a	file	on	a	filesystem,	you	might
want	to	make	sure	that	the	filesystem	itself	isn’t	going	to	fail	in	interesting	ways.
Where	to	Use	It
Where	this	pattern	really	shines	is	in	enabling	interoperability	between	processes
--- PAGE 140 ---
that	might	have	restrictions	on	what	technology	they	can	use.	Having	an	existing
system	talk	to	your	microservice’s	GRPC	interface	or	subscribe	to	its	Kafka
topic	might	well	be	more	convenient	from	the	point	of	view	of	the	microservice,
but	not	from	the	point	of	view	of	a	consumer.	Older	systems	may	have
limitations	on	what	technology	they	can	support	and	may	have	high	costs	of
change.	On	the	other	hand,	even	old	mainframe	systems	should	be	able	to	read
data	out	of	a	file.	This	does	of	course	all	depend	on	using	data	store	technology
that	is	widely	supported—I	could	also	implement	this	pattern	using	something
like	a	Redis	cache.	But	can	your	old	mainframe	system	talk	to	Redis?
Another	major	sweet	spot	for	this	pattern	is	in	sharing	large	volumes	of	data.	If
you	need	to	send	a	multigigabyte	file	to	a	filesystem	or	load	a	few	million	rows
into	a	database,	then	this	pattern	is	the	way	to	go.
Pattern:	Request-Response	Communication
With
	request-response,	a	microservice	sends	a	request	to	a	downstream	service
asking	it	to	do	something	and	expects	to	receive	a	response	with	the	result	of	the
request.	This	interaction	can	be	undertaken	via	a	synchronous	blocking	call,	or	it
could	be	implemented	in	an	asynchronous	nonblocking	fashion.	A	simple
example	of	this	interaction	is	shown	in	
Figure	4-8
,	where	the	
Chart
microservice,	which	collates	the	best-selling	CDs	for	different	genres,	sends	a
request	to	the	
Inventory
	service	asking	for	the	current	stock	levels	for	some
CDs.
Figure	4-8.	
The	
Chart
	microservice	sends	a	request	to	
Inventory
	asking	for	stock	levels
Retrieving	data	from	other	microservices	like	this	is	a	common	use	case	for	a
request-response	call.	Sometimes,	though,	you	just	need	to	make	sure	something
gets	done.	In	
Figure	4-9
,	the	
Warehouse
	microservice	is	sent	a	request	from
--- PAGE 141 ---
Order Processor
	asking	it	to	reserve	stock.	The	
Order Processor
	just	needs
to	know	that	stock	has	been	successfully	reserved	before	it	can	carry	on	with
taking	payment.	If	the	stock	can’t	be	reserved—perhaps	because	an	item	is	no
longer	available—then	the	payment	can	be	cancelled.	Using	request-response
calls	in	situations	like	this	where	calls	need	to	be	completed	in	a	certain	order	is
commonplace.
Figure	4-9.	
Order Processor
	needs	to	ensure	stock	can	be	reserved	before	payment	can	be	taken
COMMANDS	VERSUS	REQUESTS
I’ve
	heard	some	people	talk	about	sending	commands,	rather	than	requests,
specifically	in	the	context	of	asynchronous	request-response	communication.
The	intent	behind	the	term	
command
	is	arguably	the	same	as	that	of	
request
—namely,	an	upstream	microservice	is	asking	a	downstream	microservice	to
do	something.
Personally	speaking,	though,	I	much	prefer	the	term	
request
.	A	command
implies	a	directive	that	must	be	obeyed,	and	it	can	lead	to	a	situation	in
which	people	feel	that	the	command	has	to	be	acted	on.	A	request	implies
something	that	can	be	rejected.	It	is	right	that	a	microservice	examines	each
request	on	its	merits	and,	based	on	its	own	internal	logic,	decides	whether
--- PAGE 142 ---
the	request	should	be	acted	on.	If	the	request	it	has	been	sent	violates	internal
logic,	the	microservice	should	reject	it.	Although	it’s	a	subtle	difference,	I
don’t	feel	that	the	term	
command
	conveys	the	same	meaning.
I’ll	stick	to	using	
request
	over	
command
,	but	whatever	term	you	decide	to
use,	just	remember	that	a	microservice	gets	to	reject	the	request/command	if
appropriate.
Implementation:	Synchronous	Versus	Asynchronous
Request-response	calls	like	this	can	be	implemented	in	either	a	blocking
synchronous	or	a	nonblocking	asynchronous	style.	With	a	synchronous	call,
what	you’d	typically	see	is	a	network	connection	being	opened	with	the
downstream	microservice,	with	the	request	being	sent	along	this	connection.	The
connection	is	kept	open	while	the	upstream	microservice	waits	for	the
downstream	microservice	to	respond.	In	this	case,	the	microservice	sending	the
response	doesn’t	really	need	to	know	anything	about	the	microservice	that	sent
the	request—it’s	just	sending	stuff	back	over	an	inbound	connection.	If	that
connection	dies,	perhaps	because	either	the	upstream	or	the	downstream
microservice	instance	dies,	then	we	might	have	a	problem.
With	an	asynchronous	request-response,	things	are	less	straightforward.	Let’s
revisit	the	process	associated	with	reserving	stock.	In	
Figure	4-10
,	the	request	to
reserve	stock	is	sent	as	a	message	over	some	sort	of	message	broker	(we’ll
explore	message	brokers	later	in	this	chapter).	Rather	than	the	message	going
directly	to	the	
Inventory
	microservice	from	
Order Processor
,	it	instead	sits	in
a	queue.	The	
Inventory
	consumes	messages	from	this	queue	when	it	is	able.	It
reads	the	request,	carries	out	the	associated	work	of	reserving	the	stock,	and	then
needs	to	send	the	response	back	to	a	queue	that	
Order Processor
	is	reading
from.	The	
Inventory
	microservice	needs	to	know	where	to	route	the	response.
In	our	example,	it	sends	this	response	back	over	another	queue	that	is	in	turn
consumed	by	
Order Processor
.
--- PAGE 143 ---
Figure	4-10.	
Using	queues	to	send	stock	reservation	requests
So	with	a	nonblocking	asynchronous	interaction,	the	microservice	that	receives
the	request	needs	either	to	know	implicitly	where	to	route	the	response	or	else	to
be	told	where	the	response	should	go.	When	using	a	queue,	we	have	the	added
benefit	that	multiple	requests	could	be	buffered	up	in	the	queue	waiting	to	be
handled.	This	can	help	in	situations	in	which	the	requests	can’t	be	handled
quickly	enough.	The	microservice	can	consume	the	next	request	when	it	is	ready,
rather	than	being	overwhelmed	by	too	many	calls.	Of	course,	a	lot	then	depends
on	the	queue	absorbing	these	requests.
When	a	microservice	receives	a	response	in	this	way,	it	might	need	to	relate	the
response	to	the	original	request.	This	can	be	challenging,	as	a	lot	of	time	may
have	passed,	and	depending	on	the	nature	of	the	protocol	being	used,	the
response	may	not	come	back	to	the	same	instance	of	the	microservice	that	sent
the	request.	In	our	example	of	reserving	stock	as	part	of	placing	an	order,	we’d
need	to	know	how	to	associate	the	“stock	reserved”	response	with	a	given	order
so	we	can	carry	on	processing	that	particular	order.	An	easy	way	to	handle	this
would	be	to	store	any	state	associated	with	the	original	request	into	a	database,
such	that	when	the	response	comes	in,	the	receiving	instance	can	reload	any
associated	state	and	act	accordingly.
--- PAGE 144 ---
One	last	note:	all	forms	of	request-response	interaction	are	likely	going	to
require	some	form	of	time-out	handling	to	avoid	issues	where	the	system	gets
blocked	waiting	for	something	that	may	never	happen.	How	this	time-out
functionality	is	implemented	can	vary	based	on	the	implementation	technology,
but	it	will	be	needed.	We’ll	look	at	time-outs	in	more	detail	in	
Chapter	12
.
PARALLEL	VERSUS	SEQUENTIAL	CALLS
When
	working	with	request-response	interactions,	you’ll	often	encounter	a
situation	in	which	you	will	need	to	make	multiple	calls	before	you	can
continue	with	some	
processing.
Consider	a	situation	in	which	MusicCorp	needs	to	check	on	the	
price	for	a
given	item	from	three	different	stockists,	which	we	do	by	issuing	API	calls.
We	want	to	get	the	prices	back	from	all	three	stockists	before	deciding	which
one	we	want	to	order	new	stock	from.	We	could	decide	to	make	the	three
calls	in	sequence—waiting	for	each	one	to	finish	before	proceeding	with	the
next.	In	such	a	situation,	we’d	be	waiting	for	the	sum	of	latencies	of	each	of
the	calls.	If	the	API	call	to	each	provider	took	one	second	to	return,	we’d	be
waiting	three	seconds	before	we	can	decide	who	we	should	order	from.
A	better	option	would	be	to	run	these	three	requests	in	parallel;	then	the
overall	latency	of	the	operation	would	be	based	on	the	slowest	API	call,
rather	than	on	the	sum	of	latencies	of	each	API	call.
Reactive	extensions	and	mechanisms	like	async/await	can	be	very	useful	in
helping	to	run	calls	in	parallel,	and	this	can	result	in	significant
improvements	in	the	latency	of	some	operations.
Where	to	Use	It
Request-response	calls	make	perfect	sense	for	any	situation	in	which	the	result
of	a	request	is	needed	before	further	processing	can	take	place.	They	also	fit
really	well	in	situations	where	a	microservice	wants	to	know	if	a	call	didn’t	work
so	that	it	can	carry	out	some	sort	of	compensating	action,	like	a	retry.	If	either
aligns	with	your	situation,	then	request-response	is	a	sensible	approach;	the	only
remaining	question	is	to	decide	on	a	synchronous	versus	asynchronous
--- PAGE 145 ---
implementation,	with	the	same	trade-offs	we	discussed	earlier.
Pattern:	Event-Driven	Communication
Event-driven	communication
	looks	quite	odd	compared	to	request-response
calls.	Rather	than	a	microservice	asking	some	other	microservice	to	do
something,	a	microservice	emits	events	that	may	or	may	not	be	received	by	other
microservices.	It	is	an	inherently	asynchronous	interaction,	as	the	event	listeners
will	be	running	on	their	own	thread	of	execution.
An	event	is	a	statement	about	something	that	has	occurred,	nearly	always
something	that	has	happened	inside	the	world	of	the	microservice	that	is	emitting
the	event.	
The	microservice
	emitting	the	event	has	no	knowledge	of	the	intent	of
other	
microservices
	to	use	the	event,	and	indeed	it	may	not	even	be	aware	that
other	microservices	exist.	It	emits	the	event	when	required,	and	that	is	the	end	of
its	responsibilities.
In	
Figure	4-11
,	we	see	the	
Warehouse
	emitting	events	related	to	the	process	of
packaging	up	an	order.	These	events	are	received	by	two	microservices,
Notifications
	and	
Inventory
,	and	they	react	accordingly.	The
Notifications
	microservice	sends	an	email	to	update	our	customer	about
changes	in	order	status,	while	the	
Inventory
	microservice	can	update	stock
levels	as	items	are	packaged	into	the	customer’s	order.
--- PAGE 146 ---
Figure	4-11.	
The	
Warehouse
	emits	events	that	some	downstream	microservices	
subscribe	to
The	
Warehouse
	is	just	broadcasting	events,	assuming	that	interested	parties	will
react	accordingly.	It	is	unaware	of	who	the	recipients	of	the	events	are,	making
event-driven	interactions	much	more	loosely	coupled	in	general.	When	you
compare	this	to	a	request-response	call,	it	may	take	you	a	while	to	get	your	head
around	the	inversion	of	responsibility.	With	request-response,	we	might	instead
expect	
Warehouse
	to	tell	the	
Notifications
	microservice	to	send	emails	when
appropriate.	In	such	a	model,	
Warehouse
	would	need	to	know	what	events
require	customer	notification.	With	an	event-driven	interaction,	we	are	instead
pushing	that	responsibility	into	the	
Notifications
	microservice.
The	intent	behind	an	event	could	be	considered	the	opposite	of	a	request.	The
event	emitter	is	leaving	it	up	to	the	recipients	to	decide	what	to	do.	With	request-
response,	the	microservice	sending	the	request	knows	what	should	be	done	and
is	telling	the	other	microservice	what	it	thinks	needs	to	happen	next.	This	of
course	means	that	in	request-response,	the	requester	has	to	have	knowledge	of
what	the	downstream	recipient	can	do,	implying	a	greater	degree	of	domain
coupling.	With	event-driven	collaboration,	the	event	emitter	doesn’t	need	to
know	what	any	downstream	
microservices
	are	able	to	do,	and	in	fact	may	not
even	know	they	exist—as	a	result,	coupling	is	greatly	reduced.
The	distribution	of	responsibility	we	see	with	our	event-driven	interactions	can
mirror	the	distribution	of	responsibility	we	see	with	organizations	trying	to
--- PAGE 147 ---
create	more	autonomous	teams.	Rather	than	holding	all	the	responsibility
centrally,	we	want	to	push	it	into	the	teams	themselves	to	allow	them	to	operate
in	a	more	autonomous	fashion—a	concept	we	will	revisit	in	
Chapter	15
.	Here,
we	are	pushing	responsibility	from	
Warehouse
	into	
Notifications
	and
Payment
—this	can	help	us	reduce	the	complexity	of	microservices	like
Warehouse
	and	lead	to	a	more	even	distribution	of	“smarts”	in	our	system.	We’ll
explore	that	idea	in	more	detail	when	we	compare	choreography	and
orchestration	in	
Chapter	6
.
EVENTS	AND	MESSAGES
On
	occasion	I’ve	seen	the	terms	
messages
	and	
events
	get	confused.	An	event
is	a	fact—a	statement	that	something	happened,	along	with	some
information	about	exactly	what	happened.	A	message	is	a	thing	we	send	over
an	asynchronous	communication	mechanism,	like	a	message	broker.
With	event-driven	collaboration,	we	want	to	broadcast	that	event,	and	a
typical	way	to	implement	that	broadcast	mechanism	would	be	to	put	the
event	into	a	message.	The	message	is	the	medium;	the	event	is	the	payload.
Likewise,	we	might	want	to	send	a	request	as	the	payload	of	a	message—in
which	case	we	would	be	implementing	a	form	of	asynchronous	request-
response.
Implementation
There	are	two	main	aspects	we	need	to	consider	here:	a	way	for	our
microservices	to	emit	events,	and	a	way	for	our	consumers	to	find	out	those
events	have	happened.
Traditionally,	message	brokers	like	RabbitMQ	try	to	handle	both	problems.
Producers	use	an	API	to	publish	an	event	to	the	broker.	The	broker	handles
subscriptions,	allowing	consumers	to	be	informed	when	an	event	arrives.	These
brokers	can	even	handle	the	state	of	consumers—for	example,	by	helping	keep
track	of	what	messages	they	have	seen	before.	These	systems	are	normally
designed	to	be	scalable	and	resilient,	but	that	doesn’t	come	for	free.	It	can	add
complexity	to	the	development	process,	because	it	is	another	system	you	may
--- PAGE 148 ---
need	to	run	to	develop	and	test	your	services.	Additional	machines	and	expertise
may	also	be	required	to	keep	this	infrastructure	up	and	running.	But	once	it	is,	it
can	be	an	incredibly	effective	way	to	implement	loosely	coupled,	event-driven
architectures.	In	general,	I’m	a	fan.
Do	be	wary,	though,	about	the	world	of	middleware,	of	which	the	message
broker	is	just	a	small	part.	Queues	in	and	of	themselves	are	perfectly	sensible,
useful	things.	However,	vendors	tend	to	want	to	package	lots	of	software	with
them,	which	can	lead	to	more	and	more	smarts	being	pushed	into	the
middleware,	as	evidenced	by	things	like	the	enterprise	service	bus.	Make	sure
you	know	what	you’re	getting:	keep	your	middleware	dumb,	and	keep	the	smarts
in	the	endpoints.
Another	approach	is	to	try	to	use	HTTP	as	a	way	of	propagating	events.	Atom	is
a	REST-compliant	specification	that	defines	semantics	(among	other	things)	for
publishing	feeds	of	resources.	Many	client	libraries	exist	that	allow	us	to	create
and	consume	these	feeds.	So	our	customer	service	could	just	publish	an	event	to
such	a	feed	whenever	our	customer	service	changes.	Our	consumers	simply	poll
the	feed,	looking	for	changes.	On	one	hand,	the	fact	that	we	can	reuse	the
existing	Atom	specification	and	any	associated	libraries	is	useful,	and	we	know
that	HTTP	handles	scale	very	well.	However,	this	use	of	HTTP	is	not	good	at
low	latency	(where	some	message	brokers	excel),	and	we	still	must	deal	with	the
fact	that	the	consumers	need	to	keep	track	of	what	messages	they	have	seen	and
manage	their	own	polling	schedule.
I	have	seen	people	spend	ages	implementing	more	and	more	of	the	behaviors
that	you	get	out	of	the	box	with	an	appropriate	message	broker	to	make	Atom
work	for	some	use	cases.	For	example,	the	
competing	consumer	pattern
describes	a	method	whereby	you	bring	up	multiple	worker	instances	to	compete
for	messages,	which	works	well	for	scaling	up	the	number	of	workers	to	handle
a	list	of	independent	jobs	(we’ll	come	back	to	that	in	
the	next	chapter
).	However,
we	want	to	avoid	the	case	in	which	two	or	more	workers	see	the	same	message,
as	we’ll	end	up	doing	the	same	task	more	than	we	need	to.	With	a	message
broker,	a	standard	queue	will	handle	this.	With	Atom,	we	now	need	to	manage
our	own	shared	state	among	all	the	workers	to	try	to	reduce	the	chances	of
reproducing	effort.
If	you	already	have	a	good,	resilient	message	broker	available	to	you,	consider
--- PAGE 149 ---
using	it	to	handle	publishing	and	subscribing	to	events.	If	you	don’t	already	have
one,	give	Atom	a	look,	but	be	aware	of	the	sunk	cost	fallacy.	If	you	find	yourself
wanting	more	and	more	of	the	support	that	a	message	broker	gives	you,	at	a
certain	point	you	might	want	to	change	your	approach.
In	terms	of	what	we	actually	send	over	these	asynchronous	protocols,	the	same
considerations	apply	as	with	synchronous	communication.	If	you	are	currently
happy	with	encoding	requests	and	responses	using	JSON,	stick	with	it.
What’s	in	an	Event?
In
	
Figure	4-12
,	we	see	an	event	being	broadcast	from	the	
Customer
microservice,	informing	interested	parties	that	a	new	customer	has	registered
with	the	system.	Two	of	the	downstream	microservices,	
Loyalty
	and
Notifications
,	care	about	this	event.	The	
Loyalty
	microservice	reacts	to
receiving	the	event	by	setting	up	an	account	for	the	new	customer	so	that	they
can	start	earning	points,	whereas	the	
Notifications
	microservice	sends	an
email	to	the	newly	registered	customer	welcoming	them	to	the	wondrous
delights	of	MusicCorp.
Figure	4-12.	
Notifications
	and	
Loyalty
	microservices	receive	an	event	when	a	new	customer	is
registered
With	a	request,	we	are	asking	a	microservice	to	do	something	and	providing	the
required	information	for	the	requested	operation	to	be	carried	out.	With	an	event,
we	are	broadcasting	a	fact	that	other	parties	
might
	be	interested	in,	but	as	the
--- PAGE 150 ---
microservice	emitting	an	event	can’t	and	shouldn’t	know	who	receives	the	event,
how	do	we	know	what	information	other	parties	might	need	from	the	event?
What,	exactly,	should	be	inside	the	event?
Just	an	ID
One	option	is	for	the	event	to	just	contain	an	identifier	for	the	newly	registered
customer,	as	shown	in	
Figure	4-13
.	The	
Loyalty
	microservice	needs	only	this
identifier	to	create	the	matching	loyalty	account,	so	it	has	all	the	information	it
needs.	However,	while	the	
Notifications
	microservice	knows	that	it	needs	to
send	a	welcome	email	when	this	type	of	event	is	received,	it	will	need	additional
information	to	do	its	job—at	least	an	email	address,	and	probably	the	name	of
the	customer	as	well	to	give	the	email	that	personal	touch.	As	this	information
isn’t	in	the	event	that	the	
Notifications
	microservice	receives,	it	has	no	choice
but	to	fetch	this	information	from	the	
Customer
	microservice,	something	we	see
in	
Figure	4-13
.
Figure	4-13.	
The	
Notifications
	microservice	needs	to	request	further	details	from	the	
Customer
microservice	that	aren’t	included	in	the	event
There	are	some	downsides	with	this	approach.	Firstly,	the	
Notifications
microservice	now	has	to	know	about	the	
Customer
	microservice,	adding
additional	domain	coupling.	While	domain	coupling,	as	we	discussed	in
--- PAGE 151 ---
Chapter	2
,	is	on	the	looser	end	of	the	coupling	spectrum,	we’d	still	like	to	avoid
it	where	possible.	If	the	event	that	the	
Notification
s	microservice	received
contained	all	the	information	it	needed,	then	this	callback	wouldn’t	be	required.
The	callback	from	the	receiving	microservice	can	also	lead	to	the	other	major
downside—namely,	that	in	a	situation	with	a	large	number	of	receiving
microservices,	the	microservice	emitting	the	event	might	get	a	barrage	of
requests	as	a	result.	Imagine	if	five	different	microservices	all	received	the	same
customer	creation	event,	and	all	needed	to	request	additional	information—
they’d	all	have	to	immediately	send	a	request	to	the	
Customer
	microservice	to
get	what	they	needed.	As	the	number	of	microservices	interested	in	a	particular
event	increases,	the	impact	of	these	calls	could	become	significant.
Fully	detailed	events
The	alternative,	which	I	prefer,	is	to	put	everything	into	an	event	that	you	would
be	happy	otherwise	sharing	via	an	API.	If	you’d	let	the	
Notifications
microservice	ask	for	the	email	address	and	name	of	a	given	customer,	why	not
just	put	that	information	in	the	event	in	the	first	place?	In	
Figure	4-14
,	we	see
this	approach—
Notification
s	is	now	more	self-sufficient	and	is	able	to	do	its
job	without	needing	to	communicate	with	the	
Customer
	microservice.	In	fact,	it
might	never	need	to	know	the	
Customer
	microservice	exists.
Figure	4-14.	
An	event	with	more	information	in	it	can	allow	receiving	microservices	to	act	without
requiring	further	calls	to	the	source	of	the	event
--- PAGE 152 ---
In	addition	to	the	fact	that	events	with	more	information	can	allow	for	looser
coupling,	events	with	more	information	can	also	double	as	a	historical	record	of
what	happened	to	a	given	entity.	This	could	help	you	as	part	of	implementing	an
auditing	system,	or	perhaps	even	provide	the	ability	to	reconstitute	an	entity	at
given	points	in	time—meaning	that	these	events	could	be	used	as	part	of	an
event	sourcing,	a	concept	we’ll	explore	briefly	in	a	moment.
While	this	approach	is	definitely	my	preference,	it’s	not	without	downsides.
Firstly,	if	the	data	associated	with	an	event	is	large,	we	might	have	concerns
about	the	size	of	the	event.	Modern	message	brokers	(assuming	you’re	using	one
to	implement	your	event	broadcast	mechanism)	have	fairly	generous	limits	for
message	size;	the	default	maximum	size	for	a	message	in	Kafka	is	1	MB,	and	the
latest	release	of	RabbitMQ	has	a	theoretical	upper	limit	of	512	MB	for	a	single
message	(down	from	the	previous	limit	of	2	GB!),	even	though	one	could	expect
there	to	be	some	interesting	performance	issues	with	large	messages	like	this.
But	even	the	1	MB	afforded	to	us	as	the	maximum	size	of	a	message	on	Kafka
gives	us	a	lot	of	scope	to	send	quite	a	bit	of	data.	Ultimately,	if	you’re	venturing
into	a	space	in	which	you	are	starting	to	worry	about	the	size	of	your	events,
then	I’d	recommend	a	hybrid	approach	in	which	some	information	is	in	the	event
but	other	(larger)	data	can	be	looked	up	if	required.
In	
Figure	4-14
,	
Loyalty
	doesn’t	need	to	know	the	email	address	or	name	of	the
customer,	and	yet	it	nonetheless	receives	it	via	the	event.	This	could	lead	to
concerns	if	we	are	trying	to	limit	the	scope	of	which	microservices	can	see	what
kind	of	data—for	example,	I	might	want	to	limit	which	microservices	can	see
personally	identifiable	information	(or	PII),	payment	card	details,	or	similar
sensitive	data.	A	way	to	solve	this	could	be	to	send	two	different	types	of	events
—one	that	contains	PII	and	can	be	seen	by	some	microservices,	and	another	that
excludes	PII	and	can	be	broadcast	more	widely.	This	adds	complexity	in	terms	of
managing	visibility	of	different	events	and	ensuring	that	both	events	actually	get
fired.	What	happens	when	a	microservice	sends	the	first	type	of	event	but	dies
before	the	second	event	can	be	sent?
Another	consideration	is	that	once	we	put	data	into	an	event,	it	becomes	part	of
our	contract	with	the	outside	world.	We	have	to	be	aware	that	if	we	remove	a
field	from	an	event,	we	may	break	external	parties.	Information	hiding	is	still	an
important	concept	in	event-driven	collaboration—the	more	data	we	put	into	an
--- PAGE 153 ---
event,	the	more	assumptions	external	parties	will	have	about	the	event.	My
general	rule	is	that	I	am	OK	putting	information	into	an	event	if	I’d	be	happy
sharing	the	same	data	over	a	request-response	API.
Where	to	Use	It
Event-driven	collaboration	thrives	in	situations	in	which	information	wants	to	be
broadcast,	and	in	situations	in	which	you	are	happy	to	invert	intent.	Moving
away	from	a	model	of	telling	other	things	what	to	do	and	instead	letting
downstream	microservices	work	this	out	for	themselves	has	a	great	deal	of
attraction.
In	a	situation	in	which	you	are	focusing	on	loose	coupling	more	than	other
factors,	event-driven	collaboration	is	going	to	have	obvious	appeal.
The	cautionary	note	is	that	there	are	often	new	sources	of	complexity	that	come
to	the	fore	with	this	style	of	collaboration,	especially	if	you’ve	had	limited
exposure	to	it.	If	you	are	unsure	about	this	form	of	communication,	remember
that	our	microservice	architecture	can	(and	likely	will)	contain	a	mix	of	different
styles	of	interaction.	You	don’t	have	to	go	all	in	with	event-driven	collaboration;
perhaps	start	with	just	one	event	and	take	it	from	there.
Personally,	I	find	myself	gravitating	toward	event-driven	collaboration	almost	as
a	default.	My	brain	seems	to	have	rewired	itself	in	such	a	way	that	these	types	of
communication	just	seem	
obvious
	to	me.	This	isn’t	entirely	helpful,	as	it	can	be
tricky	to	try	and	explain	
why
	this	is	the	case,	other	than	to	say	it	
feels
	right.	But
that	is	just	my	own	built-in	bias—I	naturally	gravitate	to	what	
I
	know,	based	on
my	own	experiences.	There	is	a	strong	possibility	that	my	attraction	to	this	form
of	interaction	is	driven	almost	entirely	by	my	previous	bad	experiences	with
overly	coupled	systems.	I	might	just	be	the	general	fighting	the	last	battle	over
and	over	again	without	considering	that	perhaps	this	time	it	really	is	different.
What	I	will	say,	putting	my	own	biases	aside,	is	that	I	see	far	more	teams
replacing	request-response	interactions	with	event-driven	interactions	than	the
reverse.
Proceed	with	Caution
--- PAGE 154 ---
Some
	of	this	asynchronous	stuff	seems	fun,	right?	Event-driven	architectures
seem	to	lead	to	significantly	more	decoupled,	scalable	systems.	And	they	can.
But	these	communication	styles	do	lead	to	an	increase	in	complexity.	This	isn’t
just	the	complexity	required	to	manage	publishing	and	subscribing	to	messages,
as	we	just	discussed,	but	also	complexity	in	the	other	problems	we	might	face.
For	example,	when	considering	long-running	async	request-response,	we	have	to
think	about	what	to	do	when	the	response	comes	back.	Does	it	come	back	to	the
same	node	that	initiated	the	request?	If	so,	what	happens	if	that	node	is	down?	If
not,	do	I	need	to	store	information	somewhere	so	I	can	react	accordingly?	Short-
lived	async	can	be	easier	to	manage	if	you’ve	got	the	right	APIs,	but	even	so,	it
is	a	different	way	of	thinking	for	programmers	who	are	accustomed	to	intra-
process	synchronous	message	calls.
It’s	time	for	a	cautionary	tale.	Back	in	2006,	I	was	working	on	building	a	pricing
system	for	a	bank.	We	would	look	at	market	events	and	work	out	which	items	in
a	portfolio	needed	to	be	repriced.	Once	we	determined	the	list	of	things	to	work
through,	we	put	these	all	onto	a	message	queue.	We	were	making	use	of	a	grid	to
create	a	pool	of	pricing	workers,	allowing	us	to	scale	up	and	down	the	pricing
farm	on	request.	These	workers	used	the	competing	consumers	pattern,	each	one
gobbling	messages	as	fast	as	possible	until	there	was	nothing	left	to	process.
The	system	was	up	and	running,	and	we	were	feeling	rather	smug.	One	day,
though,	just	after	we	pushed	a	release	out,	we	hit	a	nasty	problem:	our	workers
kept	dying.	And	dying.	And	dying.
Eventually,	we	tracked	down	the	problem.	A	bug	had	crept	in	whereby	a	certain
type	of	pricing	request	would	cause	a	worker	to	crash.	We	were	using	a
transacted	queue:	as	the	worker	died,	its	lock	on	the	request	timed	out,	and	the
pricing	request	was	put	back	on	the	queue—only	for	another	worker	to	pick	it	up
and	die.	This	was	a	classic	example	of	what	Martin	Fowler	calls	a	
catastrophic
failover
.
Aside	from	the	bug	itself,	
we’d
	failed	to	specify	a	maximum	retry	limit	for	the
job	on	the	queue.	So	we	fixed	the	bug,	and	configured	a	maximum	retry.	But	we
also	realized	we	needed	a	way	to	view	and	potentially	replay	these	bad
messages.	We	ended	up	having	to	implement	a	message	hospital	(or	dead	letter
queue),	where	messages	got	sent	if	they	failed.	We	also	created	a	UI	to	view
those	messages	and	retry	them	if	needed.	These	sorts	of	problems	aren’t
--- PAGE 155 ---
immediately	obvious	if	you	are	familiar	only	with	synchronous	point-to-point
communication.
The	associated	complexity	with	event-driven	architectures	and	asynchronous
programming	in	general	leads	me	to	believe	that	you	should	be	cautious	in	how
eagerly	you	start	adopting	these	ideas.	Ensure	you	have	good	monitoring	in
place,	and	strongly	consider	the	use	of	correlation	IDs,	which	allow	you	to	trace
requests	across	process	boundaries,	as	we’ll	cover	in	depth	in	
Chapter	10
.
I	also	strongly	recommend	checking	out	
Enterprise	Integration	Patterns
	by
Gregor	Hohpe	and	Bobby	Woolf,
	which	contains	a	lot	more	detail	on	the
different	messaging	patterns	that	you	may	want	to	consider	in	this	space.
We	also	have	to	be	honest,	though,	about	the	integration	styles	that	we	might
consider	“simpler”—the	problems	associated	with	knowing	whether	things
worked	or	not	is	not	limited	to	asynchronous	forms	of	integration.	With	a
synchronous,	blocking	call,	if	you	get	a	time-out,	did	this	happen	because	the
request	got	lost	and	the	downstream	party	didn’t	receive	it?	Or	did	the	request
get	through,	but	the	response	got	lost?	What	do	you	do	in	that	situation?	If	you
retry,	but	the	original	request	did	get	through	what	then?	(Well,	this	is	where
idempotency	comes	in,	a	topic	we	cover	in	
Chapter	12
.)
Arguably,	with	regard	to	failure	handling,	synchronous	blocking	calls	can	cause
us	just	as	many	headaches	when	it	comes	to	working	out	if	things	have	happened
(or	not).	It’s	just	that	those	headaches	may	be	more	familiar	to	us!
Summary
In	this	chapter,	I	broke	down	some	of	the	key	styles	of	microservice
communication	and	discussed	the	various	trade-offs.	There	isn’t	always	a	single
right
	option,	but	hopefully	I’ve	detailed	enough	information	regarding
synchronous	and	asynchronous	calls	and	event-driven	and	request-response
styles	of	communication	to	help	you	make	the	correct	call	for	your	given
context.	My	own	biases	toward	asynchronous,	event-driven	collaboration	are	a
function	not	just	of	my	experiences	but	also	of	my	aversion	to	coupling	in
general.	But	this	style	of	communication	comes	with	significant	complexity	that
cannot	be	ignored,	and	every	situation	is	unique.
4
--- PAGE 156 ---
In	this	chapter,	I	briefly	mentioned	a	few	specific	technologies	that	can	be	used
to	implement	these	interaction	styles.	We’re	now	ready	to	begin	the	second	part
of	this	book—implementation.	In	the	next	chapter,	we’ll	explore	implementing
microservice	communication	in	more	depth.
1
	True	story.
2
	Maarten	van	Steen	and	Andrew	S.	Tanenbaum,	
Distributed	Systems
,	3rd	ed.	(Scotts	Valley,	CA:
CreateSpace	Independent	Publishing	Platform,	2017).
3
	Please	note,	this	is	very	simplified—I’ve	completely	omitted	error-handling	code,	for	example.	If
you	want	to	know	more	about	async/await,	specifically	in	JavaScript,	the	
Modern	JavaScript	Tutorial
is	a	great	place	to	start.
4
	Gregor	Hohpe	and	Bobby	Woolf,	
Enterprise	Integration	Patterns
	(Boston:	Addison-Wesley,	2003).
--- PAGE 157 ---
Part	II.	
Implementation
--- PAGE 158 ---
Chapter	5.	
Implementing
Microservice	Communication
As	we	discussed	in	the	previous	chapter,	your	choice	of	technology	should	be
driven	in	large	part	by	the	style	of	communication	you	want.	Deciding	between
blocking	synchronous	or	nonblocking	asynchronous	calls,	request-response	or
event-driven	collaboration,	will	help	you	whittle	down	what	might	otherwise	be
a	very	long	list	of	technology.	In	this	chapter,	we’re	going	to	look	at	some	of	the
technology	commonly	used	for	microservice	communication.
Looking	for	the	Ideal	Technology
There
	is	a	bewildering	array	of	options	for	how	one	microservice	can	talk	to
another.	But	which	is	the	right	one—SOAP?	XML-RPC?	REST?	gRPC?	And
new	options	are	always	coming	out.	So	before	we	discuss	specific	technology,
let’s	think	about	what	we	want	out	of	which	technology	we	pick.
Make	Backward	Compatibility	Easy
When
	making	changes	to	our	microservices,	we	need	to	make	sure	we	don’t
break	compatibility	with	any	consuming	microservices.	As	such,	we	want	to
ensure	that	whatever	technology	we	pick	makes	it	easy	to	make	backward-
compatible	changes.	Simple	operations	like	adding	new	fields	shouldn’t	break
clients.	We	also	ideally	want	the	ability	to	validate	that	the	changes	we	have
made	are	backward-compatible—and	have	a	way	to	get	that	feedback	before	we
deploy	our	microservice	into	production.
Make	Your	Interface	Explicit
It
	is	important	that	the	interface	that	a	microservice	exposes	to	the	outside	world
is	explicit.	This	means	that	it	is	clear	to	a	consumer	of	a	microservice	as	to	what
functionality	that	microservice	exposes.	But	it	also	means	that	it	is	clear	to	a
developer	working	on	the	microservice	what	functionality	needs	to	remain	intact
--- PAGE 159 ---
for	external	parties—we	want	to	avoid	a	situation	in	which	a	change	to	a
microservice	causes	an	accidental	breakage	in	compatibility.
Explicit	schemas	can	go	a	long	way	in	helping	ensure	that	the	interface	a
microservice	exposes	is	explicit.	Some	of	the	technology	we	can	look	at	requires
the	use	of	a	schema;	for	other	technology,	the	use	of	a	schema	is	optional.	Either
way,	I	strongly	encourage	the	use	of	an	explicit	schema,	as	well	as	there	being
enough	supporting	documentation	to	be	clear	about	what	functionality	a
consumer	can	expect	a	microservice	to	provide.
Keep	Your	APIs	Technology	Agnostic
If
	you	have	been	in	the	IT	industry	for	more	than	15	minutes,	you	don’t	need	me
to	tell	you	that	we	work	in	a	space	that	is	changing	rapidly.	The	one	certainty	
is
change.	New	tools,	frameworks,	and	languages	are	coming	out	all	the	time,
implementing	new	ideas	that	can	help	us	work	faster	and	more	effectively.	Right
now,	you	might	be	a	.NET	shop.	But	what	about	a	year	from	now,	or	five	years
from	now?	What	if	you	want	to	experiment	with	an	alternative	technology	stack
that	might	make	you	more	productive?
I	am	a	big	fan	of	keeping	my	options	open,	which	is	why	I	am	such	a	fan	of
microservices.	It	is	also	why	I	think	it	is	very	important	to	ensure	that	you	keep
the	APIs	used	for	communication	between	microservices	technology	agnostic.
This	means	avoiding	integration	technology	that	dictates	what	technology	stacks
we	can	use	to	implement	our	microservices.
Make	Your	Service	Simple	for	Consumers
We
	want	to	make	it	easy	for	consumers	to	use	our	microservice.	Having	a
beautifully	factored	microservice	doesn’t	count	for	much	if	the	cost	of	using	it	as
a	consumer	is	sky	high!	So	let’s	think	about	what	makes	it	easy	for	consumers	to
use	our	wonderful	new	service.	Ideally,	
we’d
	like	to	allow	our	clients	full
freedom	in	their	technology	choice;	on	the	other	hand,	providing	a	client	library
can	ease	adoption.	Often,	however,	such	libraries	are	incompatible	with	other
things	we	want	to	achieve.	For	example,	we	might	use	client	libraries	to	make	it
easy	for	consumers,	but	this	can	come	at	the	cost	of	increased	coupling.
--- PAGE 160 ---
Hide	Internal	Implementation	Detail
We	don’t	want	our	consumers	to	be	bound	to	our	internal	implementation,	as	it
leads	to	increased	coupling;	that	in	turn	means	that	if	we	want	to	change
something	inside	our	microservice,	we	can	break	our	consumers	by	requiring
them	to	also	change.	That	increases	the	cost	of	change—exactly	what	we	are
trying	to	avoid.	It	also	means	we	are	less	likely	to	want	to	make	a	change	for	fear
of	having	to	upgrade	our	consumers,	which	can	lead	to	increased	technical	debt
within	the	service.	So	any	technology	that	pushes	us	to	expose	internal
representation	detail	should	be	avoided.
Technology	Choices
There
	is	a	whole	host	of	technology	we	could	look	at,	but	rather	than	looking
broadly	at	a	long	list	of	options,	I	will	highlight	some	of	the	most	popular	and
interesting	choices.	Here	are	the	options	we’ll	be	looking	at:
Remote	procedure	calls
Frameworks	that	allow	for	local	method	calls	to	be	invoked	on	a	remote
process.	Common	options	include	SOAP	and	gRPC.
REST
An	architectural	style	where	you	expose	resources	(Customer,	Order,	etc.)
that	can	be	accessed	using	a	common	set	of	verbs	(GET,	POST).	There	is	a
bit	more	to	REST	than	this,	but	we’ll	get	to	that	shortly.
GraphQL
A	relatively	new	protocol	that	allows	consumers	to	define	custom	queries
that	can	fetch	information	from	multiple	downstream	microservices,	filtering
the	results	to	return	only	what	is	needed.
Message	brokers
Middleware	that	allows	for	asynchronous	communication	via	queues	or
topics.
--- PAGE 161 ---
Remote	Procedure	Calls
Remote	procedure	call
	(RPC)	refers
	to	the	technique	of	making	a	local	call	and
having	it	execute	on	a	remote	service	somewhere.	There	are	a	number	of
different	RPC	implementations	in	use.	Most	of	the	technology	in	this	space
requires	an	explicit	schema,	such	as	SOAP	or	gRPC.	In	the	context	of	RPC,	the
schema	is	often	referred	to	as	an	interface	definition	language	(IDL),	with	SOAP
referring	to	its	schema	format	as	a	web	service	definition	language	(WSDL).	The
use	of	a	separate	schema	makes	it	easier	to	generate	client	and	server	stubs	for
different	technology	stacks—so,	for	example,	I	could	have	a	Java	server
exposing	a	SOAP	interface,	and	a	.NET	client	generated	from	the	same	WSDL
definition	of	the	interface.	Other	technology,	such	as	Java	RMI,	calls	for	a	tighter
coupling	between	the	client	and	the	server,	requiring	that	both	use	the	same
underlying	technology	but	avoid	the	need	for	an	explicit	service	definition,	as
the	service	definition	is	implicitly	provided	by	the	Java	type	definitions.	All
these	technologies,	however,	have	the	same	core	characteristic:	they	make	a
remote	call	look	like	a	local	call.
Typically,	using	an	RPC	technology	means	you	are	buying	into	a	serialization
protocol.	The	RPC	framework	defines	how	data	is	serialized	and	deserialized.
For	instance,	gRPC	uses	the	protocol	buffer	serialization	format	for	this	purpose.
Some	implementations	are	tied	to	a	specific	networking	protocol	(like	SOAP,
which	makes	nominal	use	of	HTTP),	whereas	others	might	allow	you	to	use
different	types	of	networking	protocols,	which	can	provide	additional	features.
For	example,	TCP	offers	guarantees	about	delivery,	whereas	UDP	doesn’t	but
has	a	much	lower	overhead.	This	can	allow	you	to	use	different	networking
technology	for	different	use	cases.
RPC	frameworks	that	have	an	explicit	schema	make	it	very	easy	to	generate
client	code.	This	can	avoid	the	need	for	client	libraries,	as	any	client	can	just
generate	their	own	code	against	this	service	specification.	For	client-side	code
generation	to	work,	though,	the	client	needs	some	way	to	get	the	schema	out	of
band—in	other	words,	the	consumer	needs	to	have	access	to	the	schema	before	it
plans	to	make	calls.	Avro	RPC	is	an	interesting	outlier	here,	as	it	has	the	option
to	send	the	full	schema	along	with	the	payload,	allowing	clients	to	dynamically
interpret	the	schema.
The	ease	of	generation	of	client-side	code	is	one	of	the	main	selling	points	of
--- PAGE 162 ---
RPC.	The	fact	that	I	can	just	make	a	normal	method	call	and	theoretically	ignore
the	rest	is	a	huge	boon.
Challenges
As	we’ve	seen,	RPC	offers	some	great	advantages,	but	it’s	not	without	its
downsides—and	some	RPC	implementations	can	be	more	problematic	than
others.	Many	of	these	issues	can	be	dealt	with,	but	they	deserve	further
exploration.
Technology	coupling
Some
	RPC	mechanisms,	like	Java	RMI,	are	heavily	tied	to	a	specific	platform,
which	can	limit	which	technology	can	be	used	in	the	client	and	server.	Thrift	and
gRPC	have	an	impressive	amount	of	support	for	alternative	languages,	which
can	reduce	this	downside	somewhat,	but	be	aware	that	RPC	technology
sometimes	comes	with	restrictions	on	interoperability.
In	a	way,	this	technology	coupling	can	be	a	form	of	exposing	internal	technical
implementation	details.	For	example,	the	use	of	RMI	ties	not	only	the	client	to
the	JVM	but	the	server	as	well.
To	be	fair,	there	are	a	number	of	RPC	implementations	that	don’t	have	this
restriction—gRPC,	SOAP,	and	Thrift	are	all	examples	that	allow	for
interoperability	between	different	technology	stacks.
Local	calls	are	not	like	remote	calls
The
	core	idea	of	RPC	is	to	hide	the	complexity	of	a	remote	call.	However,	this
can	lead	to	hiding	too	much.	The	drive	in	some	forms	of	RPC	to	make	remote
method	calls	look	like	local	method	calls	hides	the	fact	that	these	two	things	are
very	different.	I	can	make	large	numbers	of	local,	in-process	calls	without
worrying	too	much	about	the	performance.	With	RPC,	though,	the	cost	of
marshaling	and	unmarshaling	payloads	can	be	significant,	not	to	mention	the
time	taken	to	send	things	over	the	network.	This	means	you	need	to	think
differently	about	API	design	for	remote	interfaces	versus	local	interfaces.	Just
taking	a	local	API	and	trying	to	make	it	a	service	boundary	without	any	more
thought	is	likely	to	get	you	in	trouble.	In	some	of	the	worst	examples,	developers
may	be	using	remote	calls	without	knowing	it,	if	the	abstraction	is	overly
opaque.
--- PAGE 163 ---
You	need	to	think	about	the	network	itself.	Famously,	the	first	of	the	fallacies	of
distributed	computing	is	
“The	network	is	reliable”
.	Networks	
aren’t
	reliable.
They	can	and	will	fail,	even	if	your	client	and	the	server	you	are	speaking	to	are
fine.	They	can	fail	fast,	they	can	fail	slow,	and	they	can	even	malform	your
packets.	You	should	assume	that	your	networks	are	plagued	with	malevolent
entities	ready	to	unleash	their	ire	on	a	whim.	Therefore,	you	can	expect	to
encounter	types	of	failure	modes	that	you	may	never	have	had	to	deal	with	in
simpler,	monolithic	software.	A	failure	could	be	caused	by	the	remote	server
returning	an	error,	or	by	you	making	a	bad	call.	Can	you	tell	the	difference,	and
if	so,	can	you	do	anything	about	it?	And	what	do	you	do	when	the	remote	server
just	starts	responding	slowly?	We’ll	cover	this	topic	when	we	talk	about
resiliency	in	
Chapter	12
.
Brittleness
Some
	of	the	most	popular	implementations	of	RPC	can	lead	to	some	nasty	forms
of	brittleness,	Java	RMI	being	a	very	good	example.	Let’s	consider	a	very	simple
Java	interface	that	we	have	decided	to	make	a	remote	API	for	our	
Customer
service.	
Example	5-1
	declares	the	methods	we	are	going	to	expose	remotely.
Java	RMI	then	generates	the	client	and	server	stubs	for	our	method.
Example	5-1.	
Defining	a	service	endpoint	using	Java	RMI
import
 
java.rmi.Remote
;
import
 
java.rmi.RemoteException
;
public
 
interface
 
CustomerRemote
 
extends
 
Remote
 
{
  
public
 
Customer
 
findCustomer
(
String
 
id
)
 
throws
 
RemoteException
;
  
public
 
Customer
 
createCustomer
(
    
String
 
firstname
,
 
String
 
surname
,
 
String
 
emailAddress
)
    
throws
 
RemoteException
;
}
In	this	interface,	
createCustomer
	takes	the	first	name,	surname,	and	email
address.	What	happens	if	we	decide	to	allow	the	
Customer
	object	to	also	be
created	with	just	an	email	address?	We	could	add	a	new	method	at	this	point
pretty	easily,	like	so:
...
public
 
Customer
 
createCustomer
(
String
 
emailAddress
)
 
throws
 
RemoteException
;
...
--- PAGE 164 ---
The	problem	is	that	now	we	need	to	regenerate	the	client	stubs	too.	Clients	that
want	to	consume	the	new	method	need	the	new	stubs,	and	depending	on	the
nature	of	the	changes	to	the	specification,	consumers	that	don’t	need	the	new
method	may	also	need	to	have	their	stubs	upgraded.	This	is	manageable,	of
course,	but	only	to	a	point.	The	reality	is	that	changes	like	this	are	fairly
common.	RPC	endpoints	often	end	up	having	a	large	number	of	methods	for
different	ways	of	creating	or	interacting	with	objects.	This	is	due	in	part	to	the
fact	that	we	are	still	thinking	of	these	remote	calls	as	local	ones.
There	is	another	sort	of	brittleness,	though.	Let’s	take	a	look	at	what	our
Customer
	object	looks	like:
public
 
class
 
Customer
 
implements
 
Serializable
 
{
  
private
 
String
 
firstName
;
  
private
 
String
 
surname
;
  
private
 
String
 
emailAddress
;
  
private
 
String
 
age
;
}
What	if	it	turns	out	that,	although	we	expose	the	
age
	field	in	our	
Customer
objects,	none	of	our	consumers	ever	use	it?	We	decide	we	want	to	remove	this
field.	But	if	the	server	implementation	removes	
age
	from	its	definition	of	this
type,	and	we	don’t	do	the	same	to	all	the	consumers,	then	even	though	they
never	used	the	field,	the	code	associated	with	deserializing	the	
Customer
	object
on	the	consumer	side	will	break.	To	roll	out	this	change,	we’d	need	to	make
changes	to	the	client	code	to	support	the	new	definition	and	deploy	these
updated	clients	at	the	same	time	as	we	roll	out	the	new	version	of	the	server.
This	is	a	key	challenge	with	any	RPC	mechanism	that	promotes	the	use	of	binary
stub	generation:	you	don’t	get	to	separate	client	and	server	deployments.	If	you
use	this	technology,	lockstep	releases	may	be	in	your	future.
Similar	problems	occur	if	we	want	to	restructure	the	
Customer
	object,	even	if	we
didn’t	remove	fields—for	example,	if	we	wanted	to	encapsulate	
firstName
	and
surname
	into	a	new	
naming
	type	to	make	it	easier	to	manage.	We	could,	of
course,	fix	this	by	passing	around	dictionary	types	as	the	parameters	of	our	calls,
but	at	that	point,	we	lose	many	of	the	benefits	of	the	generated	stubs	because
we’ll	still	have	to	manually	match	and	extract	the	fields	we	want.
--- PAGE 165 ---
In	practice,	objects	used	as	part	of	binary	serialization	across	the	wire	can	be
thought	of	as	“expand-only”	types.	This	brittleness	results	in	the	types	being
exposed	over	the	wire	and	becoming	a	mass	of	fields,	some	of	which	are	no
longer	used	but	can’t	be	safely	removed.
Where	to	use	it
Despite	its	shortcomings,	I	actually	quite	like	RPC,	and	the	more	modern
implementations,	such	as	gRPC,	are	excellent,	whereas	other	implementations
have	significant	issues	that	would	cause	me	to	give	them	a	wide	berth.	Java
RMI,	for	example,	has	a	number	of	issues	regarding	brittleness	and	limited
technology	choices,	and	SOAP	is	pretty	heavyweight	from	a	developer
perspective,	especially	when	compared	with	more	modern	choices.
Just	be	aware	of	some	of	the	potential	pitfalls	associated	with	RPC	if	you’re
going	to	pick	this	model.	Don’t	abstract	your	remote	calls	to	the	point	that	the
network	is	completely	hidden,	and	ensure	that	you	can	evolve	the	server
interface	without	having	to	insist	on	lockstep	upgrades	for	clients.	Finding	the
right	balance	for	your	client	code	is	important,	for	example.	Make	sure	your
clients	aren’t	oblivious	to	the	fact	that	a	network	call	is	going	to	be	made.	Client
libraries	are	often	used	in	the	context	of	RPC,	and	if	not	structured	right	they	can
be	problematic.	We’ll	talk	more	about	them	shortly.
If	I	was	looking	at	options	in	this	space,	gRPC	would	be	at	the	top	of	my	list.
Built	to	take	advantage	of	HTTP/2,	it	has	some	impressive	performance
characteristics	and	good	general	ease	of	use.	I	also	appreciate	the	ecosystem
around	gRPC,	including	tools	like	
Protolock
,	which	is	something	we’ll	discuss
later	in	this	chapter	when	we	discuss	schemas.
gRPC	fits	a	synchronous	request-response	model	well	but	can	also	work	in
conjunction	with	reactive	extensions.	It’s	high	on	my	list	whenever	I’m	in
situations	where	I	have	a	good	deal	of	control	over	both	the	client	and	server
ends	of	the	spectrum.	If	you’re	having	to	support	a	wide	variety	of	other
applications	that	might	need	to	talk	to	your	microservices,	the	need	to	compile
client-side	code	against	a	server-side	schema	can	be	problematic.	In	that	case,
some	form	of	REST	over	HTTP	API	would	likely	be	a	better	fit.
REST
--- PAGE 166 ---
Representational	State	Transfer	(REST)	is
	an	architectural	style	inspired	by	the
web.	There	are	many	principles	and	constraints	behind	the	REST	style,	but	we
are	going	to	focus	on	those	that	really	help	us	when	we	face	integration
challenges	in	a	microservices	world,	and	when	we’re	looking	for	an	alternative
to	RPC	for	our	service	
interfaces.
Most	important	when	thinking	about	REST	is	the	concept	of	resources.	You	can
think	of	a	resource	as	a	thing	that	the	service	itself	knows	about,	like	a
Customer
.	The	server	creates	different	representations	of	this	
Customer
	on
request.	How	a	resource	is	shown	externally	is	completely	decoupled	from	how
it	is	stored	internally.	A	client	might	ask	for	a	JSON	representation	of	a
Customer
,	for	example,	even	if	it	is	stored	in	a	completely	different	format.
Once	a	client	has	a	representation	of	this	
Customer
,	it	can	then	make	requests	to
change	it,	and	the	server	may	or	may	not	comply	with	them.
There	are	many	different	styles	of	REST,	and	I	touch	only	briefly	on	them	here.	I
strongly	recommend	you	take	a	look	at	the	
Richardson	Maturity	Model
,	where
the	different	styles	of	REST	are	compared.
REST	itself	doesn’t	really	talk	about	underlying	protocols,	although	it	is	most
commonly	used	over	HTTP.	I	have	seen	implementations	of	REST	using	very
different	protocols	before,	although	this	can	require	a	lot	of	work.	Some	of	the
features	that	HTTP	gives	us	as	part	of	the	specification,	such	as	verbs,	make
implementing	REST	over	HTTP	easier,	whereas	with	other	protocols	you’ll	have
to	handle	these	features	yourself.
REST	and	HTTP
HTTP
	itself	defines	some	useful	capabilities	that	play	very	well	with	the	REST
style.	For	instance,	the	HTTP	verbs	(e.g.,	GET,	POST,	and	PUT)	already	have
well-understood	meanings	in	the	HTTP	specification	as	to	how	they	should	work
with	resources.	The	REST	architectural	style	actually	tells	us	that	these	verbs
should	behave	the	same	way	on	all	resources,	and	the	HTTP	specification
happens	to	define	a	bunch	of	verbs	we	can	use.	GET	retrieves	a	resource	in	an
idempotent	way,	for	example,	and	POST	creates	a	new	resource.	This	means	we
can	avoid	lots	of	different	
createCustomer
	or	
editCustomer
	methods.	Instead,
we	can	simply	POST	a	customer	representation	to	request	that	the	server	create	a
new	resource,	and	then	we	can	initiate	a	GET	request	to	retrieve	a	representation
--- PAGE 167 ---
of	a	resource.	Conceptually,	there	is	one	
endpoint
	in	the	form	of	a	
Customer
resource	in	these	cases,	and	the	operations	we	can	carry	out	on	it	are	baked	into
the	HTTP	protocol.
HTTP	also	brings	a	large	ecosystem	of	supporting	tools	and	technology.	We	get
to	use	HTTP	caching	proxies	like	Varnish	and	load	balancers	like	
mod_proxy
,
and	many	monitoring	tools	already	have	lots	of	support	for	HTTP	out	of	the	box.
These	building	blocks	allow	us	to	handle	large	volumes	of	HTTP	traffic	and
route	them	smartly,	and	in	a	fairly	transparent	way.	We	also	get	to	use	all	the
available	security	controls	with	HTTP	to	secure	our	communications.	From	basic
auth	to	client	certs,	the	HTTP	ecosystem	gives	us	lots	of	tools	to	make	the
security	process	easier,	and	we’ll	explore	that	topic	more	in	
Chapter	11
.	That
said,	to	get	these	benefits,	you	have	to	use	HTTP	well.	Use	it	badly,	and	it	can	be
as	insecure	and	hard	to	scale	as	any	other	technology	out	there.	Use	it	right,
though,	and	you	get	a	lot	of	help.
Note	that	HTTP	can	be	used	to	implement	RPC	too.	SOAP,	for	example,	gets
routed	over	HTTP,	but	it	unfortunately	uses	very	little	of	the	specification.	Verbs
are	ignored,	as	are	simple	things	like	HTTP	error	codes.	On	the	other	hand,
gRPC	has	been	designed	to	take	advantage	of	the	capabilities	of	HTTP/2,	such
as	the	ability	to	send	multiple	request-response	streams	over	a	single	connection.
But	of	course,	when	using	gRPC,	you’re	not	doing	REST	just	because	you’re
using	HTTP!
Hypermedia	as	the	engine	of	application	state
Another
	principle	introduced	in	REST	that	can	help	us	avoid	the	coupling
between	client	and	server	is	the	concept	of	
hypermedia	as	the	engine	of
application	state
	(often	abbreviated	as	HATEOAS,	and	boy,	did	it	need	an
abbreviation).	This	is	fairly	dense	wording	and	a	fairly	interesting	concept,	so
let’s	break	it	down	a	bit.
Hypermedia	is	a	concept	wherein	a	piece	of	content	contains	links	to	various
other	pieces	of	content	in	a	variety	of	formats	(e.g.,	text,	images,	sounds).	This
should	be	pretty	familiar	to	you,	as	it’s	what	happens	in	the	average	web	page:
you	follow	links,	which	are	a	form	of	hypermedia	controls,	to	see	related
content.	The	idea	behind	HATEOAS	is	that	clients	should	perform	interactions
with	the	server	(potentially	leading	to	state	transitions)	via	these	links	to	other
--- PAGE 168 ---
resources.	A	client	doesn’t	need	to	know	where	exactly	customers	live	on	the
server	by	knowing	which	URI	to	hit;	instead,	the	client	looks	for	and	navigates
links	to	find	what	it	needs.
This	is	a	bit	of	an	odd	concept,	so	let’s	first	step	back	and	consider	how	people
interact	with	a	web	page,	which	we	have	already	established	is	rich	with
hypermedia	
controls.
Think	of	the	Amazon.com	shopping	site.	The	location	of	the	shopping	cart	has
changed	over	time.	The	graphic	has	changed.	The	link	has	changed.	But	as
humans	we	are	smart	enough	to	still	see	a	shopping	cart,	know	what	it	is,	and
interact	with	it.	We	have	an	understanding	of	what	a	shopping	cart	means,	even
if	the	exact	form	and	underlying	control	used	to	represent	it	have	changed.	We
know	that	if	we	want	to	view	the	cart,	this	is	the	control	we	want	to	interact	with.
This	is	how	web	pages	can	change	incrementally	over	time.	As	long	as	these
implicit	contracts	between	the	customer	and	the	website	are	still	met,	changes
don’t	need	to	be	breaking	changes.
With	hypermedia	controls,	we	are	trying	to	achieve	the	same	level	of	“smarts”
for	our	electronic	consumers.	Let’s	look	at	a	hypermedia	control	that	we	might
have	for	
MusicCorp
.	We’ve	accessed	a	resource	representing	a	catalog	entry	for
a	given	album	in	
Example	5-2
.	Along	with	information	about	the	album,	we	see
a	number	of	hypermedia	controls.
Example	5-2.	
Hypermedia	controls	used	on	an	album	listing
<album
>
  
<name
>
Give Blood
</name>
  
<link
 
rel=
"/artist"
 
href=
"/artist/theBrakes"
 
/>
 
  
<description
>
    Awesome, short, brutish, funny and loud. Must buy!
  
</description>
  
<link
 
rel=
"/instantpurchase"
 
href=
"/instantPurchase/1234"
 
/>
 
</album>
This	hypermedia	control	shows	us	where	to	find	information	about	the	artist.
And	if	we	want	to	purchase	the	album,	we	now	know	where	to	go.
In	this	document,	we	have	two	hypermedia	controls.	The	client	reading	such	a
document	needs	to	know	that	a	control	with	a	relation	of	
artist
	is	where	it
needs	to	navigate	to	get	information	about	the	artist,	and	that	
instantpurchase
--- PAGE 169 ---
is	part	of	the	protocol	used	to	purchase	the	album.	The	client	has	to	understand
the	semantics	of	the	API	in	much	the	same	way	that	a	human	needs	to
understand	that	on	a	shopping	website	the	cart	is	where	the	items	to	be
purchased	will	be.
As	a	client,	I	don’t	need	to	know	which	URI	scheme	to	access	to	
buy
	the	album;
I	just	need	to	access	the	resource,	find	the	buy	control,	and	navigate	to	that.	The
buy	control	could	change	location,	the	URI	could	change,	or	the	site	could	even
send	me	to	another	service	altogether,	and	as	a	client	I	wouldn’t	care.	This	gives
us	a	huge	amount	of	decoupling	between	the	client	and	the	server.
We	are	greatly	abstracted	from	the	underlying	detail	here.	We	could	completely
change	the	implementation	of	how	the	control	is	presented	as	long	as	the	client
can	still	find	a	control	that	matches	its	understanding	of	the	protocol,	in	the	same
way	that	a	shopping	cart	control	might	go	from	being	a	simple	link	to	a	more
complex	JavaScript	control.	We	are	also	free	to	add	new	controls	to	the
document,	perhaps	representing	new	state	transitions	that	we	can	perform	on	the
resource	in	question.	We	would	end	up	breaking	our	consumers	only	if	we
fundamentally	changed	the	semantics	of	one	of	the	controls	so	it	behaved	very
differently,	or	if	we	removed	a	control	altogether.
The	theory	is	that,	by	using	these	controls	to	decouple	the	client	and	server,	we
gain	significant	benefits	over	time	that	hopefully	offset	the	increase	in	the	time	it
takes	to	get	these	protocols	up	and	running.	Unfortunately,	although	these	ideas
all	seem	sensible	in	theory,	I’ve	found	that	this	form	of	REST	is	rarely	practiced,
for	reasons	I’ve	not	entirely	come	to	grips	with.	This	makes	HATEOAS	in
particular	a	much	harder	concept	for	me	to	promote	for	those	already	committed
to	the	use	of	REST.	Fundamentally,	many	of	the	ideas	in	REST	are	predicated	on
creating	distributed	hypermedia	systems,	and	this	isn’t	what	most	people	end	up
building.
Challenges
In	terms	of	ease	of	consumption,	historically	you	wouldn’t	be	able	to	generate
client-side	code	for	your	REST	over	HTTP	application	protocol	like	you	can
with	RPC	implementations.	This	has	often	lead	to	people	creating	REST	APIs
that	provide	client	libraries	for	consumers	to	make	use	of.	These	client	libraries
give	you	a	binding	to	the	API	to	make	client	integration	easier.	The	problem	is
--- PAGE 170 ---
that	client	libraries	can	cause	some	challenges	with	regards	to	coupling	between
the	client	and	the	server,	something	we’ll	discuss	in	
“DRY	and	the	Perils	of	Code
Reuse	in	a	Microservice	World”
.
In
	recent	years	this	problem	has	been	somewhat	alleviated.	The	
OpenAPI
specification
	that	grew	out	of	the	Swagger	project	now	provides	you	with	the
ability	to	define	enough	information	on	a	REST	endpoint	to	allow	for	the
generation	of	client-side	code	in	a	variety	of	languages.	In	my	experience,	I
haven’t	seen	many	teams	actually	making	use	of	this	functionality,	even	if	they
were	already	using	Swagger	for	documentation.	I	have	a	suspicion	that	this	may
be	due	to	the	difficulties	of	retrofitting	its	use	into	current	APIs.	I	do	also	have
concerns	about	a	specification	that	was	previously	used	just	for	documentation
now	being	used	to	define	a	more	explicit	contract.	This	can	lead	to	a	much	more
complex	specification—comparing	an	OpenAPI	schema	with	a	protocol	buffer
schema,	for	example,	is	quite	a	stark	contrast.	Despite	my	reservations,	though,
it’s	good	that	this	option	now	exists.
Performance	may	also	be	an	issue.	REST	over	HTTP	payloads	can	actually	be
more	compact	than	SOAP	because	REST	supports	alternative	formats	like	JSON
or	even	binary,	but	it	will	still	be	nowhere	near	as	lean	a	binary	protocol	as	Thrift
might	be.	The	overhead	of	HTTP	for	each	request	may	also	be	a	concern	for
low-latency	requirements.	All	mainstream	HTTP	protocols	in	current	use	require
the	use	of	the	Transmission	Control	Protocol	(TCP)	under	the	hood,	which	has
inefficiencies	compared	with	other	networking	protocols,	and	some	RPC
implementations	allow	you	to	use	alternative	networking	protocols	to	TCP	such
as	the	User	Datagram	Protocol	(UDP).
The	limitations	placed	on	HTTP	due	to	the	requirement	to	use	TCP	are	being
addressed.	HTTP/3,	which	is	currently	in	the	process	of	being	finalized,	is
looking	to	shift	over	to	using	the	newer	QUIC	protocol.	QUIC	provides	the	same
sorts	of	capabilities	as	TCP	(such	as	improved	guarantees	over	UDP)	but	with
some	significant	enhancements	that	have	been	shown	to	deliver	improvements	in
latency	and	reductions	in	bandwidth.	It’s	likely	to	be	several	years	before
HTTP/3	has	a	widespread	impact	on	the	public	internet,	but	it	seems	reasonable
to	assume	that	organizations	can	benefit	earlier	than	this	within	their	own
networks.
With	respect	to	HATEOAS	specifically,	you	can	encounter	additional
--- PAGE 171 ---
performance	issues.	As	clients	need	to	navigate	multiple	controls	to	find	the
right	endpoints	for	a	given	operation,	this	can	lead	to	very	chatty	protocols—
multiple	round	trips	may	be	required	for	each	operation.	Ultimately,	this	is	a
trade-off.	If	you	decide	to	adopt	a	HATEOAS-style	of	REST,	I	would	suggest
you	start	by	having	your	clients	navigate	these	controls	first	and	then	optimize
later	if	necessary.	Remember	that	using	HTTP	provides	us	with	a	large	amount
of	help	out	of	the	box,	which	we	discussed	earlier.	The	evils	of	premature
optimization	have	been	well	documented	before,	so	I	don’t	need	to	expand	on
them	here.	Also	note	that	a	lot	of	these	approaches	were	developed	to	create
distributed	hypertext	systems,	and	not	all	of	them	fit!	Sometimes	you’ll	find
yourself	just	wanting	good	old-fashioned	RPC.
Despite	these	disadvantages,	REST	over	HTTP	is	a	sensible	default	choice	for
service-to-service	interactions.	If	you	want	to	know	more,	I	recommend	
REST	in
Practice:	Hypermedia	and	Systems	Architecture
	(O’Reilly)	by	Jim	Webber,
Savas	Parastatidis,	and	Ian	Robinson,	which	covers	the	topic	of	REST	over
HTTP	in	depth.
Where	to	use	it
Due
	to	its	widespread	use	in	the	industry,	a	REST-over-HTTP-based	API	is	an
obvious	choice	for	a	synchronous	request-response	interface	if	you	are	looking
to	allow	access	from	as	wide	a	variety	of	clients	as	possible.	It	would	be	a
mistake	to	think	of	a	REST	API	as	just	being	a	“good	enough	for	most	things”
choice,	but	there	is	something	to	that.	It’s	a	widely	understood	style	of	interface
that	most	people	are	familiar	with,	and	it	guarantees	interoperability	from	a	huge
variety	of	technologies.
Due	in	large	part	to	the	capabilities	of	HTTP	and	the	extent	to	which	REST
builds	on	these	capabilities	(rather	than	hiding	them),	REST-based	APIs	excel	in
situations	in	which	you	want	large-scale	and	effective	caching	of	requests.	It’s
for	this	reason	that	they	are	the	obvious	choice	for	exposing	APIs	to	external
parties	or	client	interfaces.	They	may	well	suffer,	though,	when	compared	to
more	efficient	communication	protocols,	and	although	you	can	construct
asynchronous	interaction	protocols	over	the	top	of	REST-based	APIs,	that’s	not
really	a	great	fit	compared	to	the	alternatives	for	general	microservice-to-
microservice	communication.
--- PAGE 172 ---
Despite	intellectually	appreciating	the	goals	behind	HATEOAS,	I	haven’t	seen
much	evidence	that	the	additional	work	to	implement	this	style	of	REST	delivers
worthwhile	benefits	in	the	long	run,	nor	can	I	recall	in	the	last	few	years	talking
to	any	teams	implementing	a	microservice	architecture	that	can	speak	to	the
value	of	using	HATEOAS.	My	own	experiences	are	obviously	only	one	set	of
data	points,	and	I	don’t	doubt	that	for	some	people	HATEOAS	may	have	worked
well.	But	this	concept	does	not	seem	to	have	caught	on	as	much	as	I	thought	it
would.	It	could	be	that	the	concepts	behind	HATEOAS	are	too	alien	for	us	to
grasp,	or	it	could	be	the	lack	of	tools	or	standards	in	this	space,	or	perhaps	the
model	just	doesn’t	work	for	the	sorts	of	systems	we	have	ended	up	building.	It’s
also	possible,	of	course,	that	the	concepts	behind	HATEOAS	don’t	really	mix
well	with	how	we	build	microservices.
So	for	use	at	the	perimeter,	it	works	fantastically	well,	and	for	synchronous
request-response-based	communication	between	microservices,	it’s	great.
GraphQL
In
	recent	years,	
GraphQL
	has	gained	more	popularity,	due	in	large	part	to	the
fact	that	it	excels	in	one	specific	area.	Namely,	it	makes	it	possible	for	a	client-
side	device	to	define	queries	that	can	avoid	the	need	to	make	multiple	requests	to
retrieve	the	same	information.	This	can	offer	significant	improvements	in	terms
of	the	performance	of	constrained	client-side	devices	and	can	also	avoid	the	need
to	implement	bespoke	server-side	aggregation.
To	take	a	simple	example,	imagine	a	mobile	device	that	wants	to	display	a	page
showing	an	overview	of	a	customer’s	latest	orders.	The	page	needs	to	contain
some	information	about	the	customer,	along	with	information	about	the
customer’s	five	most	recent	orders.	The	screen	needs	only	a	few	fields	from	the
customer	record,	and	only	the	date,	value,	and	shipped	status	of	each	order.	The
mobile	device	could	issue	calls	to	two	downstream	microservices	to	retrieve	the
required	information,	but	this	would	involve	making	multiple	calls,	including
pulling	back	information	that	isn’t	actually	required.	Especially	with	mobile
devices,	this	can	be	wasteful—it	uses	up	more	of	a	mobile	device’s	data	plan
than	is	needed,	and	it	can	take	longer.
GraphQL	allows	the	mobile	device	to	issue	a	single	query	that	can	pull	back	all
the	required	information.	For	this	to	work,	you	need	a	microservice	that	exposes
--- PAGE 173 ---
a	GraphQL	endpoint	to	the	client	device.	This	GraphQL	endpoint	is	the	entry	for
all	client	queries	and	exposes	a	schema	for	the	client	devices	to	use.	This	schema
exposes	the	types	available	to	the	client,	and	a	nice	graphical	query	builder	is
also	available	to	make	creating	these	queries	easier.	By	reducing	the	number	of
calls	and	the	amount	of	data	retrieved	by	the	client	device,	you	can	deal	neatly
with	some	of	the	challenges	that	occur	when	building	user	interfaces	with
microservice	architectures.
Challenges
Early	on,	one	challenge	was	lack	of	language	support	for	the	GraphQL
specification,	with	JavaScript	being	your	only	choice	initially.	This	has	improved
greatly,	with	all	major	technologies	now	having	support	for	the	specification.	In
fact,	there	have	been	significant	improvements	in	GraphQL	and	the	various
implementations	across	the	board,	making	GraphQL	a	much	less	risky	prospect
than	it	might	have	been	a	few	years	ago.	That	said,	you	might	want	to	be	aware
of	a	few	remaining	challenges	with	the	technology.
For	one,	the	client	device	can	issue	dynamically	changing	queries,	and	I’ve
heard	of	teams	who	have	had	issues	with	GraphQL	queries	causing	significant
load	on	the	server	side	as	a	result	of	this	capability.	When	we	compare	GraphQL
with	something	like	SQL,	we	see	a	similar	issue.	An	expensive	SQL	statement
can	cause	significant	problems	for	a	database	and	potentially	have	a	large	impact
on	the	wider	system.	The	same	problem	applies	with	GraphQL.	The	difference	is
that	with	SQL	we	at	least	have	tools	like	query	planners	for	our	databases,	which
can	help	us	diagnose	problematic	queries,	whereas	a	similar	problem	with
GraphQL	can	be	harder	to	track	down.	Server-side	throttling	of	requests	is	one
potential	solution,	but	as	the	execution	of	the	call	may	be	spread	across	multiple
microservices,	this	is	far	from	straightforward.
Compared	with	normal	REST-based	HTTP	APIs,	caching	is	also	more	complex.
With	REST-based	APIs,	I	can	set	one	of	many	response	headers	to	help	client-
side	devices,	or	intermediate	caches	like	content	delivery	networks	(CDNs),
cache	responses	so	they	don’t	need	to	be	requested	again.	This	isn’t	possible	in
the	same	way	with	GraphQL.	The	advice	I’ve	seen	on	this	issue	seems	to
revolve	around	just	associating	an	ID	with	every	returned	resource	(and
remember,	a	GraphQL	query	could	contain	multiple	resources)	and	then	having
the	client	device	cache	the	request	against	that	ID.	As	far	as	I	can	tell,	this	makes
--- PAGE 174 ---
using	CDNs	or	caching	reverse	proxies	incredibly	difficult	without	additional
work.
Although	I’ve	seen	some	implementation-specific	solutions	to	this	problem
(such	as	those	found	in	the	JavaScript	Apollo	implementation),	caching	feels	like
it	was	either	consciously	or	unconsciously	ignored	as	part	of	the	initial
development	of	GraphQL.	If	the	queries	you	are	issuing	are	highly	specific	in
nature	to	a	particular	user,	then	this	lack	of	request-level	caching	may	not	be	a
deal	breaker,	of	course,	as	your	cache-hit	ratio	is	likely	to	be	low.	I	do	wonder,
though,	if	this	limitation	means	that	you’ll	still	end	up	with	a	hybrid	solution	for
client	devices,	with	some	(more	generic)	requests	going	over	normal	REST-
based	HTTP	APIs	and	other	requests	going	over	GraphQL.
Another	issue	is	that	while	GraphQL	theoretically	can	handle	writes,	it	doesn’t
seem	to	fit	as	well	as	for	reads.	This	leads	to	situations	in	which	teams	are	using
GraphQL	for	read	but	REST	for	writes.
The	last	issue	is	something	that	may	be	entirely	subjective,	but	I	still	think	it’s
worth	raising.	GraphQL	makes	it	feel	like	you	are	just	working	with	data,	which
can	reinforce	the	idea	that	the	microservices	you	are	talking	to	are	just	wrappers
over	databases.	In	fact,	I’ve	seen	multiple	people	compare	GraphQL	to	OData,	a
technology	that	is	designed	as	a	generic	API	for	accessing	data	from	databases.
As	we’ve	already	discussed	at	length,	the	idea	of	treating	microservices	just	as
wrappers	over	databases	can	be	very	problematic.	Microservices	expose
functionality	over	networked	interfaces.	Some	of	that	functionality	might	require
or	result	in	data	being	exposed,	but	they	should	still	have	their	own	internal	logic
and	behavior.	Just	because	you	are	using	GraphQL,	don’t	slip	into	thinking	of
your	microservices	as	little	more	than	an	API	on	a	database—it’s	essential	that
your	GraphQL	API	isn’t	coupled	to	the	underlying	datastores	of	your
microservices.
Where	to	use	it
GraphQL’s	sweet	spot	is	for	use	at	the	perimeter	of	the	system,	exposing
functionality	to	external	clients.	These	clients	are	typically	GUIs,	and	it’s	an
obvious	fit	for	mobile	devices	given	their	constraints	in	terms	of	their	limited
ability	to	surface	data	to	the	end	user	and	the	nature	of	mobile	networks.	But
GraphQL	has	also	seen	use	for	external	APIs,	GitHub	being	an	early	adopter	of
--- PAGE 175 ---
GraphQL.	If	you	have	an	external	API	that	often	requires	external	clients	to
make	multiple	calls	to	get	the	information	they	need,	then	GraphQL	can	help
make	the	API	much	more	efficient	and	friendly.
Fundamentally,	GraphQL	is	a	call	aggregation	and	filtering	mechanism,	so	in	the
context	of	a	microservice	architecture	it	would	be	used	to	aggregate	calls	over
multiple	downstream	microservices.	As	such,	it’s	not	something	that	would
replace	general	microservice-to-microservice	communication.
An	alternative	to	the	use	of	GraphQL	would	be	to	consider	an	alternative	pattern
like	the	backend	for	frontend	(BFF)	pattern—we’ll	look	at	that	and	compare	it
with	GraphQL	and	other	aggregation	techniques	in	
Chapter	14
.
Message	Brokers
Message	brokers
	are	intermediaries,	often	called	middleware,	that	sit	between
processes	to	manage	communication	between	them.	They	are	a	popular	choice	to
help	implement	asynchronous	communication	between	microservices,	as	they
offer	a	variety	of	powerful	capabilities.
As	we	discussed	earlier,	a	message	is	a	generic	concept	that	defines	the	thing
that	a	message	broker	sends.	A	message	could	contain	a	request,	a	response,	or
an	event.	Rather	than	one	microservice	directly	communicating	with	another
microservice,	the	microservice	instead	gives	a	message	to	a	message	broker,
with	information	about	how	the	message	should	be	sent.
Topics	and	queues
Brokers
	tend	to	provide	either	queues	or	topics,	or	both.	Queues	are	typically
point	to	point.	A	sender	puts	a	message	on	a	queue,	and	a	consumer	reads	from
that	queue.	With	a	topic-based	system,	multiple	consumers	are	able	to	subscribe
to	a	topic,	and	each	subscribed	consumer	will	receive	a	copy	of	that	message.
A	consumer	could	represent	one	or	more	microservices—typically	modeled	as	a
consumer	group.	This	would	be	useful	when	you	have	multiple	instances	of	a
microservice,	and	you	want	any	one	of	them	to	be	able	to	receive	a	message.	In
Figure	5-1
,	we	see	an	example	in	which	the	
Order Processor
	has	three
deployed	instances,	all	as	part	of	the	same	consumer	group.	When	a	message	is
put	into	the	queue,	only	one	member	of	the	consumer	group	will	receive	that
--- PAGE 176 ---
message;	this	means	the	queue	works	as	a	load	distribution	mechanism.	This	is
an	example	of	the	competing	consumers	pattern	we	touched	on	briefly	in
Chapter	4
.
Figure	5-1.	
A	queue	allows	for	one	consumer	group
With	topics,	you	can	have	multiple	consumer	groups.	In	
Figure	5-2
,	an	event
representing	an	order	being	paid	for	is	put	onto	the	
Order Status
	topic.	A	copy
of	that	event	is	received	by	both	the	
Warehouse
	microservice	and	the
Notifications
	microservice,	which	are	in	separate	consumer	groups.	Only	one
instance	of	each	consumer	group	will	see	that	event.
At
	first	glance,	a	queue	just	looks	like	a	topic	with	a	single	consumer	group.	A
large	part	of	the	distinction	between	the	two	is	that	when	a	message	is	sent	over
a	queue,	there	is	knowledge	of	what	the	message	is	being	sent	to.	With	a	topic,
this	information	is	hidden	from	the	sender	of	the	message—the	sender	is
unaware	of	who	(if	anyone)	will	end	up	receiving	the	message.
Topics	are	a	good	fit	for	event-based	collaboration,	whereas	queues	would	be
more	appropriate	for	request/response	communication.	This	should	be
considered	as	general	guidance	rather	than	a	strict	rule,	however.
--- PAGE 177 ---
Figure	5-2.	
Topics	allow	for	multiple	subscribers	to	receive	the	same	messages,	which	is	useful	for	event
broadcast
Guaranteed	delivery
So
	why	use	a	broker?	Fundamentally,	they	provide	some	capabilities	that	can	be
very	useful	for	asynchronous	communication.	The	properties	they	provide	vary,
but	the	most	interesting	feature	is	that	of	guaranteed	delivery,	something	that	all
widely	used	brokers	support	in	some	way.	Guaranteed	delivery	describes	a
commitment	by	the	broker	to	ensure	that	the	message	is	delivered.
From	the	point	of	view	of	the	microservice	sending	the	message,	this	can	be	very
useful.	It’s	not	a	problem	if	the	downstream	destination	is	unavailable—the
broker	will	hold	on	to	the	message	until	it	can	be	delivered.	This	can	reduce	the
number	of	things	an	upstream	microservice	needs	to	worry	about.	Compare	that
to	a	synchronous	direct	call—for	example,	an	HTTP	request:	if	the	downstream
destination	isn’t	reachable,	the	upstream	microservice	will	need	to	work	out
what	to	do	with	the	request;	should	it	retry	the	call	or	give	up?
For	guaranteed	delivery	to	work,	a	broker	will	need	to	ensure	that	any	messages
not	yet	delivered	are	going	to	be	held	in	a	durable	fashion	until	they	can	be
delivered.	To	deliver	on	this	promise,	a	broker	will	normally	run	as	some	sort	of
--- PAGE 178 ---
cluster-based	system,	ensuring	that	the	loss	of	a	single	machine	doesn’t	cause	a
message	to	be	lost.	There	is	typically	a	lot	involved	in	running	a	broker	correctly,
partly	due	to	the	challenges	in	managing	cluster-based	software.	Often,	the
promise	of	guaranteed	delivery	can	be	undermined	if	the	broker	isn’t	set	up
correctly.	As	an	example,	RabbitMQ	requires	instances	in	a	cluster	to
communicate	over	relatively	low-latency	networks;	otherwise	the	instances	can
start	to	get	confused	about	the	current	state	of	messages	being	handled,	resulting
in	data	loss.	I’m	not	highlighting	this	particular	limitation	as	a	way	of	saying	that
RabbitMQ	is	in	any	way	bad—all	brokers	have	restrictions	as	to	how	they	need
to	be	run	to	deliver	the	promise	of	guaranteed	delivery.	If	you	plan	to	run	your
own	broker,	make	sure	you	read	the	documentation	carefully.
It’s	also	worth	noting	that	what	any	given	broker	means	by	guaranteed	delivery
can	vary.	Again,	reading	the	documentation	is	a	great	start.
Trust
One
	of	the	big	draws	of	a	broker	is	the	property	of	guaranteed	delivery.	But	for
this	to	work,	you	need	to	trust	not	only	the	people	who	created	the	broker	but
also	the	way	that	broker	has	operated.	If	you’ve	built	a	system	that	is	based	on
the	assumption	that	delivery	is	guaranteed,	and	that	turns	out	not	to	be	the	case
due	to	an	issue	with	the	underlying	broker,	it	can	cause	significant	issues.	The
hope,	of	course,	is	that	you	are	offloading	that	work	to	software	created	by
people	who	can	do	that	job	better	than	you	can.	Ultimately,	you	have	to	decide
how	much	you	want	to	trust	the	broker	you	are	making	use	of.
Other	characteristics
Besides	guaranteed	delivery,	brokers	can	provide	other	characteristics	
that	you
may	find	useful.
Most	brokers	can	guarantee	the	order	in	which	messages	will	be	delivered,	but
this	isn’t	universal,	and	even	then	the	scope	of	this	guarantee	can	be	limited.
With	Kafka,	for	example,	ordering	is	guaranteed	only	within	a	single	partition.	If
you	can’t	be	certain	that	messages	will	be	received	in	order,	your	consumer	may
need	to	compensate,	perhaps	by	deferring	processing	of	messages	that	are
received	out	of	order	until	any	missing	messages	are	received.
Some	brokers	provide	transactions	on	write—for	instance,	Kafka	allows	you	to
--- PAGE 179 ---
write	to	multiple	topics	in	a	single	transaction.	Some	brokers	can	also	provide
read	transactionality,	something	I’ve	taken	advantage	of	when	using	a	number	of
brokers	via	the	Java	Message	Service	(JMS)	APIs.	This	can	be	useful	if	you
want	to	ensure	the	message	can	be	processed	by	the	consumer	before	removing
it	from	the	broker.
Another,	somewhat	controversial	feature	promised	by	some	brokers	is	that	of
exactly	once	delivery.	One	of	the	easier	ways	to	provide	guaranteed	delivery	is
allowing	the	message	to	be	resent.	This	can	result	in	a	consumer	seeing	the	same
message	more	than	once	(even	if	this	is	a	rare	situation).	Most	brokers	will	do
what	they	can	to	reduce	the	chance	of	this,	or	hide	this	fact	from	the	consumer,
but	some	brokers	go	further	by	guaranteeing	exactly	once	delivery.	This	is	a
complex	topic,	as	I’ve	spoken	to	some	experts	who	state	that	guaranteeing
exactly	once	delivery	in	all	cases	is	impossible,	while	other	experts	say	you
basically	can	do	so	with	a	few	simple	workarounds.	Either	way,	if	your	broker	of
choice	claims	to	implement	this,	then	pay	
really
	careful	attention	to	how	it	is
implemented.	Even	better,	build	your	consumers	in	such	a	way	that	they	are
prepared	for	the	fact	that	they	might	receive	a	message	more	than	once	and	can
handle	this	situation.	A	very	simple	example	would	be	for	each	message	to	have
an	ID,	which	a	consumer	can	check	each	time	a	message	is	received.	If	a
message	with	that	ID	has	already	been	processed,	the	newer	message	can	be
ignored.
Choices
A
	variety	of	message	brokers	exist.	Popular	examples	include	RabbitMQ,
ActiveMQ,	and	Kafka	(which	we’ll	explore	further	shortly).	The	main	public
cloud	vendors	also	provide	a	variety	of	products	that	play	this	role,	from
managed	versions	of	those	brokers	that	you	can	install	on	your	own
infrastructure	to	bespoke	implementations	that	are	specific	to	a	given	platform.
AWS,
	for	example,	has
	Simple	Queue	Service	(SQS),	Simple	Notification
Service	(SNS),	and	Kinesis,	all	of	which	provide	different	flavors	of	fully
managed	brokers.	SQS	was	in	fact	the	second-ever	product	released	by	AWS,
having	been	launched	back	in	2006.
Kafka
Kafka
	is	worth	highlighting	as	a	specific	broker,	due	in	large	part	to	its	recent
--- PAGE 180 ---
popularity.	Part	of	that	popularity	is	due	to	Kafka’s	use	in	helping	move	large
volumes	of	data	around	as	part	of	implementing	stream	processing	pipelines.
This	can	help	move	from	batch-oriented	processing	to	more	real-time
processing.
There	are	a	few	characteristics	of	Kafka	that	are	worth	highlighting.	Firstly,	it	is
designed	for	very	large	scale—it	was	built	at	LinkedIn	to	replace	multiple
existing	message	clusters	with	a	single	platform.	Kafka	is	built	to	allow	for
multiple	consumers	and	producers—I’ve	spoken	to	one	expert	at	a	large
technology	company	who	had	over	fifty	thousand	producers	and	consumers
working	on	the	same	cluster.	To	be	fair,	very	few	organizations	have	problems	at
that	level	of	scale,	but	for	some	organizations,	the	ability	to	scale	Kafka	easily
(relatively	speaking)	can	be	very	useful.
Another	fairly	unique	feature	of	Kafka	is	message	permanence.	With	a	normal
message	broker,	once	the	last	consumer	has	received	a	message,	the	broker	no
longer	needs	to	hold	on	to	that	message.	With	Kafka,	messages	can	be	stored	for
a	configurable	period.	This	means	that	messages	can	be	stored	forever.	This	can
allow	consumers	to	reingest	messages	that	they	had	already	processed,	or	allow
newly	deployed	consumers	to	process	messages	that	were	sent	previously.
Finally,	Kafka	has	been	rolling	out	built-in	support	for	stream	processing.	Rather
than	using	Kafka	to	send	messages	to	a	dedicated	stream	processing	tool	like
Apache	Flink,	some	tasks	can	instead	be	done	inside	Kafka	itself.	Using	KSQL,
you	can	define	SQL-like	statements	that	can	process	one	or	more	topics	on	the
fly.	This	can	give	you	something	akin	to	a	dynamically	updating	materialized
database	view,	with	the	source	of	data	being	Kafka	topics	rather	than	a	database.
These	capabilities	open	up	some	very	interesting	possibilities	for	how	data	is
managed	in	distributed	systems.	If	you’d	like	to	explore	these	ideas	in	more
detail,	I	can	recommend	
Designing	Event-Driven	Systems
	(O’Reilly)	by	Ben
Stopford.	(I	have	to	recommend	Ben’s	book,	as	I	wrote	the	foreword	for	it!)	For
a	deeper	dive	into	Kafka	in	general,	I’d	suggest	
Kafka:	The	Definitive	Guide
(O’Reilly)	by	Neha	Narkhede,	Gwen	Shapira,	and	Todd	Palino.
Serialization	Formats
Some
	of	the	technology	choices	we’ve	looked	at—specifically,	some	of	the	RPC
--- PAGE 181 ---
implementations—make	choices	for	you	regarding	how	data	is	serialized	and
deserialized.	With	gRPC,	for	example,	any	data	sent	will	be	converted	into
protocol	buffer	format.	Many	of	the	technology	options,	though,	give	us	a	lot	of
freedom	in	terms	of	how	we	covert	data	for	network	calls.	Pick	Kafka	as	your
broker	of	choice,	and	you	can	send	messages	in	a	variety	of	formats.	So	which
format	should	you	choose?
Textual	Formats
The
	use	of	standard	textual	formats	gives	clients	a	lot	of	flexibility	in	how	they
consume	resources.	REST	APIs	most	often	use	a	textual	format	for	the	request
and	response	bodies,	even	if	theoretically	you	can	quite	happily	send	binary	data
over	HTTP.	In	fact,	this	is	how	gRPC	works—using	HTTP	underneath	but
sending	binary	protocol	buffers.
JSON	has	usurped	XML	as	the	text	serialization	format	of	choice.	You	can	point
to	a	number	of	reasons	why	this	has	occurred,	but	the	primary	reason	is	that	one
of	the	main	consumers	of	APIs	is	often	a	browser,	where	JSON	is	a	great	fit.
JSON	became	popular	partly	as	a	result	of	the	backlash	against	XML,	and
proponents	cite	its	relative	compactness	and	simplicity	when	compared	to	XML
as	another	winning	factor.	The	reality	is	that	there’s	rarely	a	massive	differential
between	the	size	of	a	JSON	payload	and	that	of	an	XML	payload,	especially	as
these	payloads	are	typically	compressed.	It’s	also	worth	pointing	out	that	some
of	the	simplicity	of	JSON	comes	at	a	cost—in	our	rush	to	adopt	simpler
protocols,	schemas	went	out	of	the	window	(more	on	that	later).
Avro	is	an	interesting	serialization	format.	It	takes	JSON	as	an	underlying
structure	and	uses	it	to	define	a	schema-based	format.	Avro	has	found	a	lot	of
popularity	as	a	format	for	message	payloads,	partly	due	to	its	ability	to	send	the
schema	as	part	of	the	payload,	which	can	make	supporting	multiple	different
messaging	formats	much	
easier.
Personally,	though,	I	am	still	a	fan	of	XML.	Some	of	the	tool	support	is	better.
For	example,	if	I	want	to	extract	only	certain	parts	of	the	payload	(a	technique
we’ll	discuss	more	in	
“Handling	Change	Between	Microservices”
),	I	can	use
XPATH,	which	is	a	well-understood	standard	with	lots	of	tool	support,	or	even
CSS	selectors,	which	many	find	even	easier.	With	JSON,	I	have	JSONPath,	but
this	is	not	as	widely	supported.	I	find	it	odd	that	people	pick	JSON	because	it	is
--- PAGE 182 ---
nice	and	lightweight	but	then	try	to	push	concepts	into	it	like	hypermedia
controls	that	already	exist	in	XML.	I	accept,	though,	that	I	am	probably	in	the
minority	here	and	that	JSON	is	the	format	of	choice	for	many	people!
Binary	Formats
While
	textual	formats	have	benefits	such	as	making	it	easy	for	humans	to	read
them	and	provide	a	lot	of	interoperability	with	different	tools	and	technologies,
the	world	of	binary	serialization	protocols	is	where	you	want	to	be	if	you	start
getting	worried	about	payload	size	or	about	the	efficiencies	of	writing	and
reading	the	payloads.	Protocol	buffers	have	been	around	for	a	while	and	are
often	used	outside	the	scope	of	gRPC—they	probably	represent	the	most	popular
binary	serialization	format	for	microservice-based	communication.
This	space	is	large,	however,	and	a	number	of	other	formats	have	been
developed	with	a	variety	of	requirements	in	mind.	
Simple	Binary	Encoding
,
Cap’n	Proto
,	and	
FlatBuffers
	all	come	to	mind.	Although	benchmarks	abound
for	each	of	these	formats,	highlighting	their	relevant	benefits	compared	to
protocol	buffers,	JSON,	or	other	formats,	benchmarks	suffer	from	a	fundamental
problem	in	that	they	may	not	necessarily	represent	how	you	are	going	to	use
them.	If	you’re	looking	to	eke	the	last	few	bytes	out	of	your	serialization	format,
or	to	shave	microseconds	off	the	time	taken	to	read	or	write	these	payloads,	I
strongly	suggest	you	carry	out	your	own	comparison	of	these	various	formats.	In
my	experience,	the	vast	majority	of	systems	rarely	have	to	worry	about	such
optimizations,	as	they	can	often	achieve	the	improvements	they	are	looking	for
by	sending	less	data	or	by	not	making	the	call	at	all.	However,	if	you	are
building	an	ultra-low-latency	distributed	system,	make	sure	you’re	prepared	to
dive	headfirst	into	the	world	of	binary	serialization	formats.
Schemas
A
	discussion	that	comes	up	time	and	again	is	whether	we	should	use	schemas	to
define	what	our	endpoints	expose	and	what	they	accept.	Schemas	can	come	in
lots	of	different	types,	and	picking	a	serialization	format	will	typically	define
which	schema	technology	you	can	use.	If	you’re	working	with	raw	XML,	you’d
use	XML	Schema	Definition	(XSD);	if	you’re	working	with	raw	JSON,	you’d
--- PAGE 183 ---
use	JSON	Schema.	Some	of	the	technology	choices	we’ve	touched	on
(specifically,	a	sizable	subset	of	the	RPC	options)	require	the	use	of	explicit
schemas,	so	if	you	picked	those	technologies	you’d	have	to	make	use	of
schemas.	SOAP	works	through	the	use	of	a	WSDL,	while	gRPC	requires	the	use
of	a	protocol	buffer	specification.	Other	technology	choices	we’ve	explored
make	the	use	of	schemas	optional,	and	this	is	where	things	get	more	
interesting.
As	I’ve	already	discussed,	I	am	in	favor	of	having	explicit	schemas	for
microservice	endpoints,	for	two	key	reasons.	Firstly,	they	go	a	long	way	toward
being	an	explicit	representation	of	what	a	microservice	endpoint	exposes	and
what	it	can	accept.	This	makes	life	easier	both	for	developers	working	on	the
microservice	and	for	their	consumers.	Schemas	may	not	replace	the	need	for
good	documentation,	but	they	certainly	can	help	reduce	the	amount	of
documentation	required.
The	other	reason	I	like	explicit	schemas,	though,	is	how	they	help	in	terms	of
catching	accidental	breakages	of	microservice	endpoints.	We’ll	explore	how	to
handle	changes	between	microservices	in	a	moment,	but	it’s	first	worth
exploring	the	different	types	of	breakages	and	the	role	schemas	can	play.
Structural	Versus	Semantic	Contract	Breakages
Broadly
	speaking,	we	can	break	contract	breakages	down	into	two	categories
—
structural
	breakages	and	
semantic
	breakages.	A	structural	breakage	is	a
situation	in	which	the	structure	of	the	endpoint	changes	in	such	a	way	that	a
consumer	is	now	incompatible—this	could	represent	fields	or	methods	being
removed,	or	new	required	fields	being	added.	A	semantic	breakage	refers	to	a
situation	in	which	the	structure	of	the	microservices	endpoint	remains	the	same
but	the	behavior	changes	in	such	a	way	as	to	break	consumers’	expectations.
Let’s	take	a	simple	example.	You	have	a	highly	complex	
Hard Calculations
microservice	that	exposes	a	
calculate
	method	on	its	endpoint.	This	
calculate
method	takes	two	integers,	both	of	which	are	required	fields.	If	you	changed
Hard Calculations
	such	that	the	
calculate
	method	now	takes	only	one
integer,	then	consumers	would	break—they’d	be	sending	requests	with	two
integers	that	the	
Hard Calculations
	microservice	would	reject.	This	is	an
example	of	a	structural	change,	and	in	general	such	changes	can	be	easier	to
--- PAGE 184 ---
spot.
A	semantic	changes	is	more	problematic.	This	is	where	the	structure	of	the
endpoint	doesn’t	change	but	the	behavior	of	the	endpoint	does.	Coming	back	to
our	
calculate
	method,	imagine	that	in	the	first	version,	the	two	provided
integers	are	added	together	and	the	results	returned.	So	far,	so	good.	Now	we
change	
Hard Calculations
	so	that	the	
calculate
	method	multiplies	the
integers	together	and	returns	the	result.	The	semantics	of	the	
calculate
	method
have	changed	in	a	way	that	could	break	expectations	of	the	consumers.
Should	You	Use	Schemas?
By	using	schemas	and	comparing	different	versions	of	schemas,	we	can	catch
structural	breakages.	Catching	semantic	breakages	requires	the	use	of	testing.	If
you	don’t	have	schemas,	or	if	you	have	schemas	but	decide	not	to	compare
schema	changes	for	compatibility,	then	the	burden	of	catching	structural
breakages	before	you	get	to	production	also	falls	on	testing.	Arguably,	the
situation	is	somewhat	analogous	with	static	versus	dynamic	typing	in
programming	languages.	With	a	statically	typed	language,	the	types	are	fixed	at
compile	time—if	your	code	does	something	with	an	instance	of	a	type	that	isn’t
allowed	(like	calling	a	method	that	doesn’t	exist),	then	the	compiler	can	catch
that	mistake.	This	can	leave	you	to	focus	testing	efforts	on	other	sorts	of
problems.	With	a	dynamically	typed	language,	though,	some	of	your	testing	will
need	to	catch	mistakes	that	a	compiler	picks	up	for	statically	typed	languages.
Now,	I’m	pretty	relaxed	about	static	versus	dynamically	typed	languages,	and
I’ve	found	myself	to	be	very	productive	(relatively	speaking)	in	both.	Certainly,
dynamically	typed	languages	give	you	some	significant	benefits	that	for	many
people	justify	giving	up	on	compile-time	safety.	Personally	speaking,	though,	if
we	bring	the	discussion	back	to	microservice	interactions,	I	haven’t	found	that	a
similarly	balanced	trade-off	exists	when	it	comes	to	schema	versus	“schemaless”
communication.	Put	simply,	I	think	that	having	an	explicit	schema	more	than
offsets	any	perceived	benefit	of	having	schemaless	communication.
Really,	the
	question	isn’t	actually	whether	you	have	a	schema	or	not—it’s
whether	or	not	that	schema	is	
explicit
.	If	you	are	consuming	data	from	a
schemaless	API,	you	still	have	expectations	as	to	what	data	should	be	in	there
--- PAGE 185 ---
and	how	that	data	should	be	structured.	Your	code	that	will	handle	the	data	will
be	written	with	a	set	of	assumptions	in	mind	as	to	how	that	data	is	structured.	In
such	a	case,	I’d	argue	that	you	do	have	a	schema,	but	it’s	just	totally	implicit
rather	than	explicit.
	A	lot	of	my	desire	for	an	explicit	schema	is	driven	by	the
fact	that	I	think	it’s	important	to	be	as	explicit	as	possible	about	what	a
microservice	does	(or	doesn’t)	expose.
The	main	argument	for	schemaless	endpoints	seems	to	be	that	schemas	need
more	work	and	don’t	give	enough	value.	This,	in	my	humble	opinion,	is	partly	a
failure	of	imagination	and	partly	a	failure	of	good	tooling	to	help	schemas	have
more	value	when	it	comes	to	using	them	to	catch	structural	breakages.
Ultimately,	a	lot	of	what	schemas	provide	is	an	explicit	representation	of	part	of
the	structure	contract	between	a	client	and	a	server.	They	help	make	things
explicit	and	can	greatly	aid	communication	between	teams	as	well	as	work	as	a
safety	net.	In	situations	in	which	the	cost	of	change	is	reduced—for	example,
when	both	client	and	server	are	owned	by	the	same	team—I	am	more	relaxed
about	not	having	schemas.
Handling	Change	Between	Microservices
Probably
	the	most	common	question	I	get	about	microservices,	after	“How	big
should	they	be?”	is	“How	do	you	handle	versioning?”	When	this	question	gets
asked,	it’s	rarely	a	query	regarding	what	sort	of	numbering	scheme	you	should
use	and	more	about	how	you	handle	changes	in	the	contracts	between
microservices.
How	you	handle	change	really	breaks	down	into	two	topics.	In	a	moment,	we’ll
look	at	what	happens	if	you	need	to	make	a	breaking	change.	But	before	that,
let’s	look	at	what	you	can	do	to	avoid	making	a	breaking	change	in	the	first
place.
Avoiding	Breaking	Changes
If
	you	want	to	avoid	making	breaking	changes,	there	are	a	few	key	ideas	worth
exploring,	many	of	which	we	already	touched	on	at	the	start	of	the	chapter.	If
you	can	put	these	ideas	into	practice,	you’ll	find	it	much	easier	to	allow	for
1
--- PAGE 186 ---
microservices	to	be	changed	independently	from	one	another.
Expansion	changes
Add	new	things	to	a	microservice	interface;	don’t	remove	old	things.
Tolerant	reader
When	consuming	a	microservice	interface,	be	flexible	in	what	you	expect.
Right	technology
Pick	technology	that	makes	it	easier	to	make	backward-compatible	changes
to	the	interface.
Explicit	interface
Be	explicit	about	what	a	microservice	exposes.	This	makes	things	easier	for
the	client	and	easier	for	the	maintainers	of	the	microservice	to	understand
what	can	be	changed	freely.
Catch	accidental	breaking	changes	early
Have	mechanisms	in	place	to	catch	interface	changes	that	will	break
consumers	in	production	before	those	changes	are	deployed.
These	ideas	do	reinforce	each	other,	and	many	build	on	that	key	concept	of
information	hiding	that	we’ve	discussed	frequently.	Let’s	look	at	each	idea	in
turn.
Expansion	Changes
Probably	the	easiest	place	to	start	is	by	adding	only	new	things	to	a	microservice
contract	and	not	removing	anything	else.	Consider	the	example	of	adding	a	new
field	to	a	payload—assuming	the	client	is	in	some	way	tolerant	of	such	changes,
this	shouldn’t	have	a	material	impact.	Adding	a	new	
dateOfBirth
	field	to	a
customer	record	should	be	fine,	for	example.
Tolerant	Reader
--- PAGE 187 ---
How	the	consumer	of	a	microservice	is	implemented	can	bring	a	lot	to	bear	on
making	backward-compatible	changes	easy.	Specifically,	we	want	to	avoid	client
code	binding	too	tightly	to	the	interface	of	a	microservice.	Let’s	consider	an
Email
	microservice	whose	job	it	is	to	send	out	emails	to	our	customers	from
time	to	time.	It	gets	asked	to	send	an	“order	shipped”	email	to	a	customer	with
the	ID	1234;	it	goes	off	and	retrieves	the	customer	with	that	ID	and	gets	back
something	like	the	response	shown	in	
Example	5-3
.
Example	5-3.	
Sample	response	from	the	
Customer
	service
<customer>
  
<firstname>
Sam
</firstname>
  
<lastname>
Newman
</lastname>
  
<email>
sam@magpiebrain.com
</email>
  
<telephoneNumber>
555-1234-5678
</telephoneNumber>
</customer>
Now,	to	send	the	email,	the	
Email
	microservice	needs	only	the	
firstname
,
lastname
,	and	
email
	fields.	We	don’t	need	to	know	the	
telephoneNumber
.	We
want	to	simply	pull	out	those	fields	we	care	about	and	ignore	the	rest.	Some
binding	technology,	especially	that	used	by	strongly	typed	languages,	can
attempt	to	bind	
all
	fields	whether	the	consumer	wants	them	or	not.	What
happens	if	we	realize	that	no	one	is	using	the	
telephoneNumber
	and	we	decide
to	remove	it?	This	could	cause	consumers	to	break	needlessly.
Likewise,	what	if	we	wanted	to	restructure	our	
Customer
	object	to	support	more
details,	perhaps	adding	some	further	structure,	as	in	
Example	5-4
?	The	data	our
Email
	service	wants	is	still	there,	with	the	same	name,	but	if	our	code	makes
very	explicit	assumptions	as	to	where	the	
firstname
	and	
lastname
	fields	will
be	stored,	then	it	could	break	again.	In	this	instance,	we	could	instead	use	XPath
to	pull	out	the	fields	we	care	about,	allowing	us	to	be	ambivalent	about	where
the	fields	are	as	long	as	we	can	find	them.	This	pattern—of	implementing	a
reader	able	to	ignore	changes	we	don’t	care	about—is	what	Martin	Fowler	calls
a	
tolerant	reader
.
Example	5-4.	
A	restructured	
Customer
	resource:	the	data	is	all	still	there,	but
can	our	consumers	find	it?
<customer>
  
<naming>
    
<firstname>
Sam
</firstname>
--- PAGE 188 ---
    
<lastname>
Newman
</lastname>
    
<nickname>
Magpiebrain
</nickname>
    
<fullname>
Sam "Magpiebrain" Newman
</fullname>
  
</naming>
  
<email>
sam@magpiebrain.com
</email>
</customer>
The
	example	of	a	client	trying	to	be	as	flexible	as	possible	in	consuming	a
service	demonstrates	
Postel’s	law
	(otherwise	known	as	the	
robustness	principle
),
which	states:	“Be	conservative	in	what	you	do,	be	liberal	in	what	you	accept
from	others.”	The	original	context	for	this	piece	of	wisdom	was	the	interaction
of	devices	over	networks,	where	you	should	expect	all	sorts	of	odd	things	to
happen.	In	the	context	of	microservice-based	interactions,	it	leads	us	to	try	and
structure	our	client	code	to	be	tolerant	of	changes	to	payloads.
Right	Technology
As	we’ve	already	explored,	some	technology	can	be	more	brittle	when	it	comes
to	allowing	us	to	change	interfaces—I’ve	already	highlighted	my	own	personal
frustrations	with	Java	RMI.	On	the	other	hand,	some	integration
implementations	go	out	of	their	way	to	make	it	as	easy	as	possible	for	changes	to
be	made	without	breaking	clients.	At	the	simple	end	of	the	spectrum,	protocol
buffers,	the	serialization	format	used	as	part	of	gRPC,	have	the	concept	of	field
number.	Each	entry	in	a	protocol	buffer	has	to	define	a	field	number,	which
client	code	expects	to	find.	If	new	fields	are	added,	the	client	doesn’t	care.	Avro
allows	for	the	schema	to	be	sent	along	with	the	payload,	allowing	clients	to
potentially	interpret	a	payload	much	like	a	dynamic	type.
At	the	more	extreme	end	of	the	spectrum,	the	REST	concept	of	HATEOAS	is
largely	all	about	enabling	clients	to	make	use	of	REST	endpoints	even	when	they
change	by	making	use	of	the	previously	discussed	hypermedia	links.	This	does
call	for	you	to	buy	into	the	entire	HATEOAS	mindset,	of	course.
Explicit	Interface
I
	am	a	
big
	fan	of	a	microservice	exposing	an	explicit	schema	that	denotes	what
its	endpoints	do.	Having	an	explicit	schema	makes	it	clear	to	consumers	what
they	can	expect,	but	it	also	makes	it	much	clearer	to	a	developer	working	on	a
microservice	as	to	what	things	should	remain	untouched	to	ensure	you	don’t
--- PAGE 189 ---
break	consumers.	Put	another	way,	an	explicit	schema	goes	a	long	way	toward
making	the	boundaries	of	information	hiding	more	explicit—what’s	exposed	in
the	schema	is	by	definition	not	hidden.
Having	an	explicit	schema	for	RPC	is	long	established	and	is	in	fact	a
requirement	for	many	RPC	implementations.	REST,	on	the	other	hand,	has
typically	viewed	the	concept	of	a	schema	as	optional,	to	the	point	that	I	find
explicit	schemas	for	REST	endpoints	to	be	vanishingly	rare.	This
	is	changing,
with	things	like	the	aforementioned	OpenAPI	specification	gaining	traction,	and
with	the	JSON	Schema	specification	also	gaining	in	maturity.
Asynchronous	messaging	protocols	have	struggled	more	in	this	space.	You	can
have	a	schema	for	the	payload	of	a	message	easily	enough,	and	in	fact	this	is	an
area	in	which	Avro	is	frequently	used.	However,	having	an	explicit	interface
needs	to	go	further	than	this.	If	we	consider	a	microservice	that	fires	events,
which	events	does	it	expose?	A
	few	attempts	at	making	explicit	schemas	for
event-based	endpoints	are	now	underway.	One	is	
AsyncAPI
,	which	has	picked
up	
a	number	of
	big-name	users,	but	the	one	gaining	most	traction	seems	to	be
CloudEvents
,	a	specification	which	is	backed	by	the	Cloud	Native	Computing
Foundation	(CNCF).	Azure’s
	event	grid	product	supports	the	
CloudEvents
format,	a	sign	of	different	vendors	supporting	this	format,	which	should	help
with	interoperability.	This	is	still	a	fairly	new	space,	so	it	will	be	interesting	to
see	how	things	shake	out	over	the	next	few	years.
SEMANTIC	VERSIONING
Wouldn’t
	it	be	great	if	as	a	client	you	could	look	just	at	the	version	number
of	a	service	and	know	whether	you	can	integrate	with	it?	
Semantic
versioning
	is	a	specification	that	allows	just	that.	With	semantic	versioning,
each	version	number	is	in	the	form	
MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH
.	When	the	
MAJOR
number	increments,	it	means	that	backward-incompatible	changes	have	been
made.	When	
MINOR
	increments,	new	functionality	has	been	added	that
should	be	backward	compatible.	Finally,	a	change	to	
PATCH
	states	that	bug
fixes	have	been	made	to	existing	
functionality
.
To	see	how	useful	semantic	versioning	can	be,	let’s	look	at	a	simple	use
case.	Our	helpdesk	application	is	built	to	work	against	version	1.2.0	of	the
--- PAGE 190 ---
Customer
	service.	If	a	new	feature	is	added,	causing	the	
Customer
	service	to
change	to	1.3.0,	our	helpdesk	application	should	see	no	change	in	behavior
and	shouldn’t	be	expected	to	make	any	changes.	We	couldn’t	guarantee	that
we	could	work	against	version	1.1.0	of	the	
Customer
	service,	though,	as	we
may	rely	on	functionality	added	in	the	1.2.0	release.	We	could	also	expect	to
have	to	make	changes	to	our	application	if	a	new	2.0.0	release	of	the
Customer
	service	comes	out.
You	may	decide	to	have	a	semantic	version	for	the	service,	or	even	for	an
individual	endpoint	on	a	service	if	you	are	coexisting	them,	as	detailed	in	the
next	section.
This	versioning	scheme	allows	us	to	pack	a	lot	of	information	and
expectations	into	just	three	fields.	The	full	specification	outlines	in	very
simple	terms	the	expectations	clients	can	have	of	changes	to	these	numbers,
and	it	can	simplify	the	process	of	communicating	about	whether	changes
should	impact	consumers.	Unfortunately,	I	haven’t	seen	this	approach	used
enough	in	distributed	systems	to	understand	its	effectiveness	in	that	context
—something	that	hasn’t	really	changed	since	the	first	edition	of	this	book.
Catch	Accidental	Breaking	Changes	Early
It’s	crucial	that	we	pick	up	changes	that	will	break	consumers	as	soon	as
possible,	because	even	if	we	choose	the	best	possible	technology,	an	innocent
change	of	a	microservice	could	cause	consumers	to	break.	As	we’ve	already
touched	on,	using	schemas	can	help	us	pick	up	structural	changes,	assuming	we
use	some	sort	of	tooling	to	help	compare	schema	versions.	There
	is	a	wide	range
of	tooling	out	there	to	do	this	for	different	schema	types.	We	have	
Protolock
	for
protocol	buffers,	
json-schema-diff-validator
	for	JSON	Schema,	and	openapi-diff
for	the	OpenAPI	specification.
	More	tools	seem	to	be	cropping	up	all	the	time
in	this	space.	What	you’re	looking	for,	though,	is	something	that	won’t	just
report	on	the	differences	between	two	schemas	but	will	pass	or	fail	based	on
compatibility;	this	would	allow	you	to	fail	a	CI	build	if	incompatible	schemas
are	found,	ensuring	that	your	microservice	won’t	get	deployed.
The
	open	source	
Confluent	Schema	Registry
	supports	JSON	Schema,	Avro,	and
protocol	buffers	and	is	capable	of	comparing	newly	uploaded	versions	for
2
--- PAGE 191 ---
backward	compatibility.	Although	it	was	built	to	help	as	part	of	an	ecosystem	in
which	Kafka	is	being	used,	and	needs	Kafka	to	run,	there	is	nothing	to	stop	you
from	using	it	to	store	and	validate	schemas	being	used	for	non-Kafka-based
communication.
Schema
	comparison	tools	can	help	us	catch	structural	breakages,	but	what	about
semantic	breakages?	Or	what	if	you	aren’t	making	use	of	schemas	in	the	first
place?	Then	we’re	looking	at	testing.	This	is	a	topic	we’ll	explore	in	more	detail
in	
“Contract	Tests	and	Consumer-Driven	Contracts	(CDCs)”
,	but	I	wanted	to
highlight	consumer-driven	contract	testing,	which	explicitly	helps	in	this	area—
Pact	being	an	excellent	example	of	a	tool	aimed	specifically	at	this	problem.	Just
remember,	if	you	don’t	have	schemas,	expect	your	testing	to	have	to	do	more
work	to	catch	breaking	changes.
If	you’re	supporting	multiple	different	client	libraries,	running	tests	using	each
library	you	support	against	the	latest	service	is	another	technique	that	can	help.
Once	you	realize	you	are	going	to	break	a	consumer,	you	have	the	choice	to
either	try	to	avoid	the	break	altogether	or	else	embrace	it	and	start	having	the
right	conversations	with	the	people	looking	after	the	consuming	services.
Managing	Breaking	Changes
So
	you’ve	gone	as	far	as	you	can	to	ensure	that	the	changes	you’re	making	to	a
microservice’s	interface	are	backward	compatible,	but	you’ve	realized	that	you
just	have	to	make	a	change	that	will	constitute	a	breaking	change.	What	can	you
do	in	such	a	situation?	You’ve	got	three	main	options:
Lockstep	deployment
Require	that	the	microservice	exposing	the	interface	and	all	consumers	of
that	interface	are	changed	at	the	same	time.
Coexist	incompatible	microservice	versions
Run	old	and	new	versions	of	the	microservice	side	by	side.
Emulate	the	old	interface
Have	your	microservice	expose	the	new	interface	and	also	emulate	the	old
--- PAGE 192 ---
interface.
Lockstep	Deployment
Of
	course,	lockstep	deployment	flies	in	the	face	of	independent	deployability.	If
we	want	to	be	able	to	deploy	a	new	version	of	our	microservice	with	a	breaking
change	to	its	interface	but	still	do	this	in	an	independent	fashion,	we	need	to	give
our	consumers	time	to	upgrade	to	the	new	interface.	That	leads	us	on	to	the	next
two	options	I’d	consider.
Coexist	Incompatible	Microservice	Versions
Another
	versioning	solution	often	cited	is	to	have	different	versions	of	the
service	live	at	once	and	for	older	consumers	to	route	their	traffic	to	the	older
version,	with	newer	consumers	seeing	the	new	version,	as	shown	in	
Figure	5-3
.
This	is	the	approach	used	sparingly	by	Netflix	in	situations	in	which	the	cost	of
changing	older	consumers	is	too	high,	especially	in	rare	cases	in	which	legacy
devices	are	still	tied	to	older	versions	of	the	API.	I	am	not	a	fan	of	this	idea
personally,	and	understand	why	Netflix	uses	it	rarely.	First,	if	I	need	to	fix	an
internal	bug	in	my	service,	I	now	have	to	fix	and	deploy	two	different	sets	of
services.	This	would	probably	mean	I	have	to	branch	the	codebase	for	my
service,	and	that	is	always	problematic.	Second,	it	means	I	
need	smarts
	to	handle
directing	consumers	to	the	right	microservice.	This	behavior	
inevitably
	ends	up
sitting	in	middleware	somewhere,	or	in	a	bunch	of	
nginx
	scripts,	making	it
harder	to	reason	about	the	behavior	of	the	system.	Finally,	consider	any
persistent	state	our	service	might	manage.	Customers	created	by	either	version	of
the	service	need	to	be	stored	and	made	visible	to	all	services,	no	matter	which
version	was	used	to	create	the	data	in	the	first	place.	This	can	be	an	additional
source	of	
complexity.
--- PAGE 193 ---
Figure	5-3.	
Running	multiple	versions	of	the	same	service	to	support	old	endpoints
Coexisting	concurrent	service	versions	for	a	short	period	of	time	can	make
perfect	sense,	especially	when	you’re	doing	something	like	a	canary	release
(we’ll	be	discussing	this	pattern	more	in	
“On	to	Progressive	Delivery”
).	In	these
situations,	we	may	be	coexisting	versions	for	only	a	few	minutes	or	perhaps
hours,	and	we	normally	will	have	only	two	different	versions	of	the	service
present	at	the	same	time.	The	longer	it	takes	for	you	to	get	consumers	upgraded
to	the	newer	version	and	released,	the	more	you	should	look	to	coexist	different
--- PAGE 194 ---
endpoints	in	the	same	microservice	rather	than	coexist	entirely	different
versions.	I	remain	unconvinced	that	this	work	is	worthwhile	for	the	average
project.
Emulate	the	Old	Interface
If	we’ve	done	all	we	can	to	avoid	introducing	a	breaking	interface	change,	our
next	job	is	to	limit	the	impact.	The	thing	we	want	to	avoid	is	forcing	consumers
to	upgrade	in	lockstep	with	us,	as	we	always	want	to	maintain	the	ability	to
release	microservices	independently	of	each	other.	One	approach	I	have	used
successfully	to	handle	this	is	to	coexist	both	the	old	and	new	interfaces	in	the
same	running	service.	So	if	we	want	to	release	a	breaking	change,	we	deploy	a
new	version	of	the	service	that	exposes	both	the	old	and	new	versions	of	the
endpoint.
This	allows	us	to	get	the	new	microservice	out	as	soon	as	possible,	along	with
the	new	interface,	while	giving	time	for	consumers	to	move	over.	Once	all	the
consumers	are	no	longer	using	the	old	endpoint,	you	can	remove	it	along	with
any	associated	code,	as	shown	in	
Figure	5-4
.
Figure	5-4.	
One	microservice	emulating	the	old	endpoint	and	exposing	the	new	backward-incompatible
endpoint
When	I	last	used	this	approach,	we	had	gotten	ourselves	into	a	bit	of	a	mess	with
--- PAGE 195 ---
the	number	of	consumers	we	had	and	the	number	of	breaking	changes	we	had
made.	This	meant	that	we	were	actually	coexisting	three	different	versions	of	the
endpoint.	This	is	not	something	
I’d
	recommend!	Keeping	all	the	code	around
and	the	associated	testing	required	to	ensure	they	all	worked	was	absolutely	an
additional	burden.	To	make	this	more	manageable,	we	internally	transformed	all
requests	to	the	V1	endpoint	to	a	V2	request,	and	then	V2	requests	to	the	V3
endpoint.	This	meant	we	could	clearly	delineate	what	code	was	going	to	be
retired	when	the	old	endpoint(s)	died.
This	is	in	effect	an	example	of	the	expand	and	contract	pattern,	which	allows	us
to	phase	in	breaking	changes.	We	
expand
	the	capabilities	we	offer,	supporting
both	old	and	new	ways	of	doing	something.	Once	the	old	consumers	do	things	in
the	new	way,	we	
contract
	our	API,	removing	the	old	functionality.
If	you	are	going	to	coexist	endpoints,	you	need	a	way	for	callers	to	route	their
requests	accordingly.	For	systems	making	use	of	HTTP,	I	have	seen	this	done
with	both	version	numbers	in	request	headers	and	also	in	the	URI	itself—for
example,	
/v1/customer/
	or	
/v2/customer/
.	I’m	torn	as	to	which	approach	makes
the	most	sense.	On	the	one	hand,	I	like	URIs	being	opaque	to	discourage	clients
from	hardcoding	URI	templates,	but	on	the	other	hand,	this	approach	does	make
things	very	obvious	and	can	simplify	request	routing.
For	RPC,	things	can	be	a	little	trickier.	I	have	handled	this	with	protocol	buffers
by	putting	my	methods	in	different	namespaces—for	example,
v1.createCustomer
	and	
v2.createCustomer
—but	when	you	are	trying	to
support	different	versions	of	the	same	types	being	sent	over	the	network,	this
approach	can	become	really	painful.
Which	Approach	Do	I	Prefer?
For	situations	in	which	the	same	team	manages	both	the	microservice	and	all
consumers,	I	am	somewhat	relaxed	about	a	lockstep	release	in	limited	situations.
Assuming	it	really	is	a	one-off	situation,	then	doing	this	when	the	impact	is
limited	to	a	single	team	can	be	justifiable.	I	am	very	cautious	about	this,	though,
as	there	is	the	danger	that	a	one-off	activity	becomes	business	as	usual,	and	there
goes	independent	deployability.	Use	lockstep	deployments	too	often,	and	you’ll
end	up	with	a	distributed	monolith	before	long.

================================================================================
Service discovery, gateway, mesh, resilience basics (PDF pages 196-222)
================================================================================

--- PAGE 196 ---
Coexisting	different	versions	of	the	same	microservice	can	be	problematic,	as	we
discussed.	I’d	consider	doing	this	only	in	situations	in	which	we	planned	to	run
the	microservice	versions	side	by	side	for	only	a	short	period	of	time.	The	reality
is	that	when	you	need	to	give	consumers	time	to	upgrade,	you	could	be	looking
at	weeks	or	more.	In	other	situations	in	which	you	might	coexist	microservice
versions,	perhaps	as	part	of	a	blue-green	deployment	or	canary	release,	the
durations	involved	are	much	shorter,	offsetting	the	downsides	of	this	approach.
My	general	preference	is	to	use	emulation	of	old	endpoints	wherever	possible.
The	challenges	of	implementing	emulation	are	in	my	opinion	much	easier	to	deal
with	than	those	of	coexisting	microservice	versions.
The	Social	Contract
Which
	approach	you	pick	will	be	due	in	large	part	to	the	expectations	consumers
have	of	how	these	changes	will	be	made.	Keeping	the	old	interface	lying	around
can	have	a	cost,	and	ideally	you’d	like	to	turn	it	off	and	remove	associated	code
and	
infrastructure
	as	soon	as	possible.	On	the	other	hand,	you	want	to	give
consumers	as	much	time	as	possible	to	make	a	change.	And	remember,	in	many
cases	the	backward-incompatible	changes	you	are	making	are	often	things	that
have	been	asked	for	by	the	consumers	and/or	will	actually	end	up	benefiting
them.	There	is	a	balancing	act,	of	course,	between	the	needs	of	the	microservice
maintainers	and	those	of	the	consumers,	and	this	needs	to	be	discussed.
I’ve	found	that	in	many	situations,	how	these	changes	will	be	handled	has	never
been	discussed,	leading	to	all	sorts	of	challenges.	As	with	schemas,	having	some
degree	of	explicitness	in	how	backward-incompatible	changes	will	be	made	can
greatly	simplify	things.
You	don’t	necessarily	need	reams	of	paper	and	huge	meetings	to	reach
agreement	on	how	changes	will	be	handled.	But	assuming	you	aren’t	going
down	the	route	of	lockstep	releases,	I’d	suggest	that	both	the	owner	and	the
consumer	of	a	microservice	need	to	be	clear	on	a	few	things:
How	will	you	raise	the	issue	that	the	interface	needs	to	change?
How	will	the	consumers	and	microservice	teams	collaborate	to	agree	on
what	the	change	will	look	like?
--- PAGE 197 ---
Who	is	expected	to	do	the	work	to	update	the	consumers?
When	the	change	is	agreed	on,	how	long	will	consumers	have	to	shift
over	to	the	new	interface	before	it	is	removed?
Remember,	one
	of	the	secrets	to	an	effective	microservice	architecture	is	to
embrace	a	consumer-first	approach.	Your	microservices	exist	to	be	called	by
other	consumers.	The	consumers’	needs	are	paramount,	and	if	you	are	making
changes	to	a	microservice	that	are	going	to	cause	upstream	consumers	problems,
this	needs	to	be	taken	into	account.
In	some	situations,	of	course,	it	might	not	be	possible	to	change	the	consumers.
I’ve	heard	from	Netflix	that	they	had	issues	(at	least	historically)	with	old	set-top
boxes	using	older	versions	of	the	Netflix	APIs.	These	set-top	boxes	cannot	be
upgraded	easily,	so	the	old	endpoints	have	to	remain	available	unless	and	until
the	number	of	older	set-top	boxes	drops	to	a	level	at	which	they	can	have	their
support	disabled.	Decisions	to	stop	old	consumers	from	being	able	to	access
your	endpoints	can	sometimes	end	up	being	financial	ones—how	much	money
does	it	cost	you	to	support	the	old	interface,	balanced	against	how	much	money
you	make	from	those	consumers.
Tracking	Usage
Even
	if	you	do	agree	on	a	time	by	which	consumers	should	stop	using	the	old
interface,	would	you	know	if	they	had	actually	stopped	using	it?	Making	sure
you	have	logging	in	place	for	each	endpoint	your	microservice	exposes	can	help,
as	can	
ensuring
	that	you	have	some	sort	of	client	identifier	so	you	can	chat	to	the
team	in	question	if	you	need	to	work	with	them	to	get	them	to	migrate	away
from	your	old	interface.	This	could	be	something	as	simple	as	asking	consumers
to	put	their	identifer	in	the	
user-agent
	header	when	making	HTTP	requests,	or
you	could	require	that	all	calls	go	via	some	sort	of	API	gateway	where	clients
need	keys	to	identify	
themselves.
Extreme	Measures
So	assuming	you	know	that	a	consumer	is	still	using	an	old	interface	that	you
want	to	remove,	and	they	are	dragging	their	heels	about	moving	to	the	new
version,	what	can	you	do	about	it?	Well,	the	first	thing	to	do	is	talk	to	them.
--- PAGE 198 ---
Perhaps	you	can	lend	them	a	hand	to	make	the	changes	happen.	If	all	else	fails,
and	they	still	don’t	upgrade	even	after	agreeing	to	do	so,	there	are	some	extreme
techniques	I’ve	seen	used.
At	one	large	tech	company,	we	discussed	how	it	handled	this	issue.	Internally,
the	company	had	a	very	generous	period	of	one	year	before	old	interfaces	would
be	retired.	I	asked	how	it	knew	if	consumers	were	still	using	the	old	interfaces,
and	the	company	replied	that	it	didn’t	really	bother	tracking	that	information;
after	one	year	it	just	turned	the	old	interface	off.	It	was	recognized	internally	that
if	this	caused	a	consumer	to	break,	it	was	the	fault	of	the	consuming
microservice’s	team—they’d	had	a	year	to	make	the	change	and	hadn’t	done	so.
Of	course,	this	approach	won’t	work	for	many	(I	said	it	was	extreme!).	It	also
leads	to	a	large	degree	of	inefficiency.	By	not	knowing	if	the	old	interface	was
used,	the	company	denied	itself	the	opportunity	to	remove	it	before	the	year	had
passed.	Personally,	even	if	I	was	to	suggest	just	turning	the	endpoint	off	after	a
certain	period	of	time,	I’d	still	definitely	want	tracking	of	who	was	going	to	be
impacted.
Another	extreme	measure	I	saw	was	actually	in	the	context	of	deprecating
libraries,	but	it	could	also	theoretically	be	used	for	microservice	endpoints.	The
example	given	was	of	an	old	library	that	people	were	trying	to	retire	from	use
inside	the	organization	in	favor	of	a	newer,	better	one.	Despite	lots	of	work	to
move	code	over	to	use	the	new	library,	some	teams	were	still	dragging	their
heels.	The	solution	was	to	insert	a	sleep	in	the	old	library	so	that	it	responded
more	slowly	to	calls	(with	logging	to	show	what	was	happening).	Over	time,	the
team	driving	the	deprecation	just	kept	increasing	the	duration	of	the	sleep,	until
eventually	the	other	teams	got	the	message.	You	obviously	have	to	be	extremely
sure	that	you’ve	exhausted	other	reasonable	efforts	to	get	consumers	to	upgrade
before	considering	something	like	this!
DRY	and	the	Perils	of	Code	Reuse	in	a
Microservice	World
One
	of	the	acronyms	we	developers	hear	a	lot	is	DRY:	don’t	repeat	yourself.
Though	its	definition	is	sometimes	simplified	as	trying	to	avoid	duplicating
code,	DRY	
more	accurately
	means	that	we	want	to	avoid	duplicating	our	system
--- PAGE 199 ---
behavior	and	knowledge
.	This	is	very	sensible	advice	in	general.	Having	lots	of
lines	of	code	that	do	the	same	thing	makes	your	codebase	larger	than	needed	and
therefore	harder	to	reason	about.	When	you	want	to	change	behavior,	and	that
behavior	is	duplicated	in	many	parts	of	your	system,	it	is	easy	to	forget
everywhere	you	need	to	make	a	change,	which	can	lead	to	bugs.	So	using	DRY
as	a	mantra	in	general	makes	sense.
DRY	is	what	leads	us	to	create	code	that	can	be	reused.	We	pull	duplicated	code
into	abstractions	that	we	can	then	call	from	multiple	places.	Perhaps	we	go	as	far
as	making	a	shared	library	that	we	can	use	everywhere!	It	turns	out,	though,	that
sharing	code	in	a	microservice	environment	is	a	bit	more	involved	than	that.	As
always,	we	have	more	than	one	option	to	consider.
Sharing	Code	via	Libraries
One
	thing	we	want	to	avoid	at	all	costs	is	overly	coupling	a	microservice	and
consumers	such	that	any	small	change	to	the	microservice	itself	can	cause
unnecessary	changes	to	the	consumer.	Sometimes,	however,	the	use	of	shared
code	can	create	this	very	coupling.	For	example,	at	one	client	we	had	a	library	of
common	domain	objects	that	represented	the	core	entities	in	use	in	our	system.
This	library	was	used	by	all	the	services	we	had.	But	when	a	change	was	made
to	one	of	them,	all	services	had	to	be	updated.	Our	system	communicated	via
message	queues,	which	also	had	to	be	drained	of	their	now	
invalid
	contents,	and
woe	betide	you	if	you	forgot.
If	your	use	of	shared	code	ever	leaks	outside	your	service	boundary,	you	have
introduced	a	potential	form	of	coupling.	Using	common	code	like	logging
libraries	is	fine,	as	they	are	internal	concepts	that	are	invisible	to	the	outside
world.	The	website	realestate.com.au	makes	use	of	a	tailored	service	template	to
help	bootstrap	new	service	creation.	Rather	than	make	this	code	shared,	the
company	copies	it	for	every	new	service	to	ensure	that	coupling	doesn’t	leak	in.
The	really	important	point	about	sharing	code	via	libraries	is	that	you	cannot
update	all	uses	of	the	library	at	once.	Although	multiple	microservices	might	all
use	the	same	library,	they	do	so	typically	by	packaging	that	library	into	the
microservice	deployment.	To	upgrade	the	version	of	the	library	being	used,
you’d	therefore	need	to	redeploy	the	microservice.	If	you	want	to	update	the
same	library	everywhere	at	exactly	the	same	time,	it	could	lead	to	a	widespread
--- PAGE 200 ---
deployment	of	multiple	different	microservices	all	at	the	same	time,	with	all	the
associated	headaches.
So	if	you	are	using	libraries	for	code	reuse	across	microservice	boundaries,	you
have	to	accept	that	multiple	different	versions	of	the	same	library	might	be	out
there	at	the	same	time.	You	can	of	course	look	to	update	all	of	these	to	the	last
version	over	time,	but	as	long	as	you	are	OK	with	this	fact,	then	by	all	means
reuse	code	via	libraries.	If	you	really	do	need	to	update	that	code	for	all	users	at
exactly	the	same	time,	then	you’ll	actually	want	to	look	at	reusing	code	via	a
dedicated	microservice	instead.
There	is	one	specific	use	case	associated	with	reuse	through	libraries	that	is
worth	exploring	further,	though.
Client	libraries
I’ve
	spoken	to	more	than	one	team	that	has	insisted	that	creating	client	libraries
for	your	services	is	an	essential	part	of	creating	services	in	the	first	place.	The
argument	is	that	this	makes	it	easy	to	use	your	service	and	avoids	the	duplication
of	code	required	to	consume	the	service	itself.
The	problem,	of	course,	is	that	if	the	same	people	create	both	the	server	API	and
the	client	API,	there	is	a	danger	that	logic	that	should	exist	on	the	server	will
start	leaking	into	the	client.	I	should	know:	I’ve	done	this	myself.	The	more	logic
that	creeps	into	the	client	library,	the	more	cohesion	starts	to	break	down,	and
you	find	yourself	having	to	change	multiple	clients	to	roll	out	fixes	to	your
server.	You	also	limit	technology	choices,	especially	if	you	mandate	that	the
client	library	has	to	be	used.
A
	model	I	like	for	client	libraries	is	the	one	for	Amazon	Web	Services	(AWS).
The	underlying	SOAP	or	REST	web	service	calls	can	be	made	directly,	but
everyone	ends	up	using	just	one	of	the	various	existing	software	development
kits	(SDKs),	which	provide	abstractions	over	the	underlying	API.	These	SDKs,
though,	are	written	by	the	wider	community,	or	else	by	people	inside	AWS	other
than	those	who	work	on	the	API	itself.	This	degree	of	separation	seems	to	work
and	avoids	some	of	the	pitfalls	of	client	libraries.	Part	of	the	reason	this	works	so
well	is	that	the	client	is	in	charge	of	when	the	upgrade	happens.	If	you	go	down
the	path	of	client	libraries	yourself,	make	sure	this	is	the	case.
--- PAGE 201 ---
Netflix	in	particular	places	special	emphasis	on	the	client	library,	but	I	worry	that
people	view	that	purely	through	the	lens	of	avoiding	code	duplication.	In	fact,
the	client	libraries	used	by	Netflix	are	as	much	if	not	more	about	ensuring
reliability	and	scalability	of	their	systems.	The	Netflix	client	libraries	handle
service	discovery,	failure	modes,	logging,	and	other	aspects	that	aren’t	actually
about	the	nature	of	the	service	itself.	Without	these	shared	clients,	it	would	be
hard	to	ensure	that	each	piece	of	client/server	communications	behaved	well	at
the	massive	scale	at	which	Netflix	operates.	Their	use	at	Netflix	has	certainly
made	it	easy	to	get	up	and	running	and	increase	productivity	while	also	ensuring
the	system	behaves	well.	However,	according	to	at	least	one	person	at	Netflix,
over	time	this	has	led	to	a	degree	of	coupling	between	client	and	server	that	has
been	problematic.
If	the	client	library	approach	is	something	you’re	thinking	about,	it	can	be
important	to	separate	out	client	code	to	handle	the	underlying	transport	protocol,
which	can	deal	with	things	like	service	discovery	and	failure,	from	things	related
to	the	destination	service	itself.	Decide	whether	or	not	you	are	going	to	insist	on
the	client	library	being	used,	or	if	you’ll	allow	people	using	different	technology
stacks	to	make	calls	to	the	underlying	API.	And	finally,	make	sure	that	the
clients	are	in	charge	of	when	to	upgrade	their	client	libraries:	we	need	to	ensure
we	maintain	the	ability	to	release	our	services	independently	of	each	other!
Service	Discovery
Once
	you	have	more	than	a	few	microservices	lying	around,	your	attention
inevitably	turns	to	knowing	where	on	earth	everything	is.	Perhaps	you	want	to
know	what	is	running	in	a	given	environment	so	you	know	what	you	should	be
monitoring.	Maybe	it’s	as	simple	as	knowing	where	your	
Accounts
	microservice
is	so	that	its	consumers	know	where	find	it.	Or	perhaps	you	just	want	to	make	it
easy	for	developers	in	your	organization	to	know	what	APIs	are	available	so	they
don’t	reinvent	the	wheel.	Broadly	speaking,	all	of	these	use	cases	fall	under	the
banner	of	
service	discovery
.	And	as	always	with	microservices,	we	have	quite	a
few	different	options	at	our	disposal	for	dealing	with	it.
All	of	the	solutions	we’ll	look	at	handle	things	in	two	parts.	First,	they	provide
some	mechanism	for	an	instance	to	register	itself	and	say,	“I’m	here!”	Second,
--- PAGE 202 ---
they	provide	a	way	to	find	the	service	once	it’s	registered.	Service	discovery	gets
more	complicated,	though,	when	we	are	considering	an	environment	in	which
we	are	constantly	destroying	and	deploying	new	instances	of	services.	Ideally,
we’d
	want	whatever	solution	we	pick	to	cope	with	this.
Let’s	look	at	some	of	the	most	common	solutions	to	service	delivery	and
consider	our	options.
Domain	Name	System	(DNS)
It’s
	nice	to	start	simple.	DNS	lets	us	associate	a	name	with	the	IP	address	of	one
or	more	machines.	We	could	decide,	for	example,	that	our	
Accounts
microservice	is	always	found	at	
accounts.musiccorp.net
.	We	would	then	have
that	entry	point	to	the	IP	address	of	the	host	running	that	microservice,	or
perhaps	we’d	have	it	resolve	to	a	load	balancer	that	is	distributing	load	across	a
number	of	instances.	This	means	
we’d
	have	to	handle	updating	these	entries	as
part	of	deploying	our	service.
When	dealing	with	instances	of	a	service	in	different	environments,	I	have	seen	a
convention-based	domain	template	work	well.	For	example,	we	might	have	a
template	defined	as	
<servicename>-<environment>.musiccorp.net
,	giving	us
entries	like	
accounts-uat.musiccorp.net
	or	
accounts-dev.musiccorp.net
.
A	more	advanced	way	of	handling	different	environments	is	to	have	different
domain	name	servers	for	these	environments.	So	I	could	assume	that
accounts.musiccorp.net
	is	where	I	always	find	the	
Accounts
	microservice,	but	it
could	resolve	to	different	hosts	depending	on	where	I	do	the	lookup.	If	you
already	have	your	environments	sitting	in	different	network	segments	and	are
comfortable	with	managing	your	own	DNS	servers	and	entries,	this	could	be
quite	a	neat	solution,	but	it	is	a	lot	of	work	if	you	aren’t	getting	other	benefits
from	this	setup.
DNS	has	a	host	of	advantages,	the	main	one	being	it	is	such	a	well-understood
and	well-used	standard	that	almost	any	technology	stack	will	support	it.
Unfortunately,	while	a	number	of	services	exist	for	managing	DNS	inside	an
organization,	few	of	them	seem	designed	for	an	environment	in	which	we	are
dealing	with	highly	disposable	hosts,	making	updating	DNS	entries	somewhat
painful.	Amazon’s	Route	53	service	does	a	pretty	good	job	of	this,	but	I	haven’t
--- PAGE 203 ---
seen	a	self-hosted	option	that	is	as	good	yet,	although	(as	we’ll	discuss	shortly)
some	dedicated	service	discovery	tools	like	Consul	may	help	us	here.	Aside
from	the	problems	in	updating	DNS	entries,	the	DNS	specification	itself	can
cause	us	some	issues.
DNS
	entries	for	domain	names	have	a	
time	to	live
	(TTL).	This	is	how	long	a
client	can	consider	the	entry	fresh.	When	we	want	to	change	the	host	to	which
the	domain	name	refers,	we	update	that	entry,	but	we	have	to	assume	that	clients
will	be	holding	on	to	the	old	IP	for	
at	least
	as	long	as	the	TTL	states.	DNS
entries	can	get	cached	in	multiple	places	(even	the	JVM	will	cache	DNS	entries
unless	you	tell	it	not	to),	and	the	more	places	they	are	cached	in,	the	more	stale
the	entry	can	be.
One	way	to	work	around	this	problem	is	to	have	the	domain	name	entry	for	your
service	point	to	a	load	balancer,	which	in	turn	points	to	the	instances	of	your
service,	as	shown	in	
Figure	5-5
.	When	you	deploy	a	new	instance,	you	can	take
the	old	one	out	of	the	load-balancer	entry	and	add	the	new	one.	Some	people	use
DNS	round-robining,	where	the	DNS	entries	themselves	refer	to	a	group	of
machines.	This	technique	is	extremely	problematic,	as	the	client	is	hidden	from
the	underlying	host	and	therefore	cannot	easily	stop	routing	traffic	to	one	of	the
hosts	should	it	become	sick.

--- PAGE 204 ---
Figure	5-5.	
Using	DNS	to	resolve	to	a	load	balancer	to	avoid	stale	DNS	entries
As	mentioned,	DNS	is	well	understood	and	widely	supported.	But	it	does	have
one	or	two	downsides.	I	would	suggest	you	investigate	whether	it	is	a	good	fit
for	you	before	picking	something	more	complex.	For	a	situation	in	which	you
have	only	single	nodes,	having	DNS	refer	directly	to	hosts	is	probably	fine.	But
for	those	situations	in	which	you	need	more	than	one	instance	of	a	host,	have
DNS	entries	resolve	to	load	balancers	that	can	handle	putting	individual	hosts
into	and	out	of	service	as	
appropriate.
Dynamic	Service	Registries
The
	downsides	of	DNS	as	a	way	of	finding	nodes	in	a	highly	dynamic
environment	have	led	to	a	number	of	alternative	systems,	most	of	which	involve
the	service	registering	itself	with	some	central	registry,	which	in	turn	offers	the
ability	to	look	up	these	services	later	on.	Often,	these	systems	do	more	than	just
providing	service	registration	and	discovery,	which	may	or	may	not	be	a	good
thing.	This	is	a	crowded	field,	so	we’ll	just	look	at	a	few	options	to	give	you	a
sense	of	what	is	available.
ZooKeeper
ZooKeeper
	was
	originally	developed	as	part	of	the	Hadoop	project.	It	is	used	for
an	almost	bewildering	array	of	use	cases,	including	configuration	management,
synchronizing	data	between	services,	leader	election,	message	queues,	and
(usefully	for	us)	as	a	naming	service.
Like	many	similar	types	of	systems,	ZooKeeper	relies	on	running	a	number	of
nodes	in	a	cluster	to	provide	various	guarantees.	This	means	you	should	expect
to	be	running	at	least	three	Zookeeper	nodes.	Most	of	the	smarts	in	ZooKeeper
are	around	ensuring	that	data	is	replicated	safely	between	these	nodes,	and	that
things	remain	consistent	when	nodes	fail.
At	its	heart,	ZooKeeper	provides	a	hierarchical	namespace	for	storing
information.	Clients	can	insert	new	nodes	in	this	hierarchy,	change	them,	or
query	them.	Furthermore,	they	can	add	watches	to	nodes	to	be	told	when	they
change.	This	means	we	could	store	the	information	about	where	our	services	are
located	in	this	structure	and	as	a	client	be	told	when	they	change.	ZooKeeper	is
--- PAGE 205 ---
often	used	as	a	general	configuration	store,	so	you	could	also	store	service-
specific	configuration	in	it,	allowing	you	to	do	tasks	like	dynamically	changing
log	levels	or	turning	off	features	of	a	running	
system.
In	reality,	better	solutions	exist	for	dynamic	service	registration,	to	the	extent
that	I	would	actively	avoid	ZooKeeper	for	this	use	case	nowadays.
Consul
Like
	ZooKeeper,	
Consul
	supports	both	configuration	management	and	service
discovery.	But	it	goes	further	than	ZooKeeper	in	providing	more	support	for
these	key	use	cases.	For	example,	it	exposes	an	HTTP	interface	for	service
discovery,	and	one	of	Consul’s	killer	features	is	that	it	actually	provides	a	DNS
server	out	of	the	box;	
specifically
,	it	can	serve	SRV	records,	which	give	you	both
an	IP	and	a	port	for	a	given	name.	This	means	if	part	of	your	system	uses	DNS
already	and	can	support	SRV	records,	you	can	just	drop	in	Consul	and	start	using
it	without	any	changes	to	your	existing	system.
Consul	also	builds	in	other	capabilities	that	you	might	find	useful,	such	as	the
ability	to	perform	health	checks	on	nodes.	Thus	Consul	could	well	overlap	the
capabilities	provided	by	other	dedicated	monitoring	tools,	although	you	would
more	likely	use	Consul	as	a	source	of	this	information	and	then	pull	it	into	a
more	comprehensive	monitoring	setup.
Consul	uses	a	RESTful	HTTP	interface	for	everything	from	registering	a	service
to	querying	the	key/value	store	or	inserting	health	checks.	This	makes
integration	with	different	technology	stacks	very	straightforward.	Consul	also
has	a	suite	of	tools	that	work	well	with	it,	further	improving	its	usefulness.	One
example	is	
consul-template
,	which	provides	a	way	to	update	text	files	based	on
entries	in	Consul.	At	first	glance,	this	doesn’t	seem	that	interesting,	until	you
consider	the	fact	that	with	consul-template	you	can	now	change	a	value	in
Consul—perhaps	the	location	of	a	microservice,	or	a	configuration	value—and
have	configuration	files	all	across	your	system	dynamically	update.	Suddenly,
any	program	that	reads	its	configuration	from	a	text	file	can	have	its	text	files
updated	dynamically	without	needing	to	know	anything	about	Consul	itself.	A
great	use	case	for	this	would	be	dynamically	adding	or	removing	nodes	to	a	load
balancer	pool	using	a	software	load	balancer	like	HAProxy.
Another	tool	that	integrates	well	with	Consul	is	Vault,	a	secrets	management	tool
--- PAGE 206 ---
we’ll	revisit	in	
“Secrets”
.	Secrets	management	can	be	painful,	but	the
combination	of	Consul	and	Vault	can	certainly	make	life	easier.
etcd	and	Kubernetes
If
	you’re	running	on	a	platform	that	manages	container	workloads	for	you,
chances	are	you	already	have	a	service	discovery	mechanism	provided	for	you.
Kubernetes	is	no	different,	and	it	comes	partly	from	
etcd
,	a	configuration
management	store	bundled	with	Kubernetes.	etcd	has	capabilities	similar	to
those	of	Consul,	and	Kubernetes	uses	it	for	managing	a	wide	array	of
configuration	information.
We’ll	explore	Kubernetes	in	more	detail	in	
“Kubernetes	and	Container
Orchestration”
,	but	in	a	nutshell,	the	way	service	discovery	works	on	Kubernetes
is	that	you	deploy	a	container	in	a	pod,	and	then	a	service	dynamically	identifies
which	pods	should	be	part	of	a	service	by	pattern	matching	on	metadata
associated	with	the	pod.	It’s	a	pretty	elegant	mechanism	and	can	be	very
powerful.	Requests	to	a	service	will	then	get	routed	to	one	of	the	pods	that	make
up	that	service.
The	capabilities	that	you	get	out	of	the	box	with	Kubernetes	may	well	result	in
you	just	wanting	to	make	do	with	what	comes	with	the	core	platform,	eschewing
the	use	of	dedicated	tools	like	Consul,	and	for	many	this	makes	a	lot	of	sense,
especially	if	the	wider	ecosystem	of	tooling	around	Consul	isn’t	of	interest	to
you.	However,	if	you’re	running	in	a	mixed	environment,	where	you	have
workloads	running	on	Kubernetes	and	elsewhere,	then	having	a	dedicated
service	discovery	tool	that	could	be	used	across	both	platforms	may	be	the	way
to	go.
Rolling	your	own
One
	approach	I	have	used	myself	and	seen	used	elsewhere	is	to	roll	your	own
system.	On	one	project,	we	were	making	heavy	use	of	AWS,	which	offers	the
ability	to	add	tags	to	instances.	When	launching	service	instances,	I	would	apply
tags	to	help	define	what	the	instance	was	and	what	it	was	used	for.	These
allowed	for	some	rich	metadata	to	be	associated	with	a	given	host—for	example:
service	=	accounts
--- PAGE 207 ---
environment	=	production
version	=	154
I	then	used	the	AWS	APIs	to	query	all	the	instances	associated	with	a	given
AWS	account	so	I	could	find	the	machines	I	cared	about.	Here,	AWS	itself	is
handling	the	storing	of	the	metadata	associated	with	each	instance	and	providing
us	with	the	ability	to	query	it.	I	then	built	command-line	tools	for	interacting
with	these	instances	and	provided	graphical	interfaces	to	view	instance	status	at
a	glance.	All	of	this	becomes	quite	a	simple	undertaking	if	you	can
programmatically	gather	information	about	the	service	interfaces.
The	last	time	I	did	this	we	didn’t	go	as	far	as	having	services	use	the	AWS	APIs
to	find	their	service	dependencies,	but	there	is	no	reason	why	you	couldn’t.
Obviously,	if	you	want	upstream	services	to	be	alerted	when	the	location	of	a
downstream	service	changes,	you’re	on	your	own.
Nowadays,	this	is	not	the	route	I	would	go.	The	crop	of	tooling	in	this	space	is
mature	enough	that	this	would	be	a	case	of	not	just	reinventing	the	wheel	but
recreating	a	much	worse	wheel.
Don’t	Forget	the	Humans!
The	systems	we’ve	looked	at	so	far	make	it	easy	for	a	service	instance	to	register
itself	and	look	up	other	services	it	needs	to	talk	to.	But	as	humans	we	sometimes
want	this	information	too.	Making	the	information	available	in	ways	that	allow
for	humans	to	consume	it,	perhaps	by	using	APIs	to	pull	this	detail	into	humane
registries	(a	topic	we’ll	look	at	in	a	moment),	can	be	vital.
Service	Meshes	and	API	Gateways
Few
	areas	of	technology	associated	with	microservices	have	had	as	much
attention,	hype,	and	confusion	around	them	as	that	of	service	meshes	and	API
gateways.	Both	have	their	place,	but	confusingly,	they	can	also	overlap	in
responsibilities.	The	API	gateway	in	particular	is	prone	to	misuse	(and	mis-
selling),	so	it’s	important	that	we	understand	how	these	types	of	technology	can
fit	into	our	microservice	architecture.	Rather	than	attempt	to	deliver	a	detailed
view	as	to	what	you	can	do	with	these	products,	I	instead	want	to	provide	an
--- PAGE 208 ---
overview	of	where	they	fit	in,	how	they	can	help,	and	some	pitfalls	to	avoid.
In	typical	data	center	speak,	we’d	talk	about	“east-west”	traffic	as	being	inside	a
data	center,	with	“north-south”	traffic	relating	to	interactions	that	enter	or	leave
the	data	center	from	the	outside	world.	From	the	point	of	view	of	networking,
what	a	data	center	is	has	become	a	somewhat	blurry	concept,	so	for	our	purposes
we’ll	talk	more	broadly	about	a	networked	perimeter.	This	could	relate	to	an
entire	data	center,	a	Kubernetes	cluster,	or	perhaps	just	a	virtual	networking
concept	like	a	group	of	machines	running	on	the	same	virtual	LAN.
Speaking	generally,	an	API	gateway	sits	on	the	perimeter	of	your	system	and
deals	with	north-south	traffic.	Its	primary	concerns	are	managing	access	from	the
outside	world	to	your	internal	microservices.	A	service	mesh,	on	the	other	hand,
deals	very	narrowly	with	communication	between	microservices	inside	your
perimeter—the	east-west	traffic—as	
Figure	5-6
	shows.
Figure	5-6.	
An	overview	of	where	API	gateways	and	service	meshes	are	used
Service	meshes	and	API	gateways	can	potentially	allow	microservices	to	share
code	without	requiring	the	creation	of	new	client	libraries	or	new	microservices.
Put	(very)	simply,	service	meshes	and	API	gateways	can	work	as	proxies
--- PAGE 209 ---
between	microservices.	This	can	mean	that	they	may	be	used	to	implement	some
microservice-agnostic	behavior	that	might	otherwise	have	to	be	done	in	code,
such	as	service	discovery	or	logging.
If	you	are	using	an	API	gateway	or	a	service	mesh	to	implement	shared,
common	behavior	for	your	microservices,	it’s	essential	that	this	behavior	is
totally	generic—in	other	words,	that	the	behavior	in	the	proxy	bears	no	relation
to	any	specific	behavior	of	an	individual	microservice.
Now,	after	explaining	that,	I	also	have	to	explain	that	the	world	isn’t	always	as
clear-cut	as	that.	A	number	of	API	gateways	attempt	to	provide	capabilities	for
east-west	traffic	too,	but	that’s	something	we’ll	discuss	shortly.	Firstly,	let’s	look
at	API	gateways	and	the	sorts	of	things	they	can	do.
API	Gateways
Being	focused	more	on	north-south	traffic,	the	API	gateway’s	main	concern	in	a
microservices	environment	is	mapping	requests	from	external	parties	to	internal
microservices.	This	responsibility	is	akin	to	what	you	could	achieve	with	a
simple	HTTP	proxy,	and	in	fact	API	gateways	typically	build	more	features	on
top	of	existing	HTTP	proxy	products,	and	they	largely	function	as	reverse
proxies.	In	addition,	API	gateways	can	be	used	to	implement	mechanisms	like
API	keys	for	external	parties,	logging,	rate	limiting,	and	the	like.	Some	API
gateway	products	will	also	provide	developer	portals,	often	targeted	at	external
consumers.
Part	of	the	confusion	around	the	API	gateway	has	to	do	with	history.	A	while
back,	there	was	a	huge	amount	of	interest	in	what	was	called	“the	API
economy.”	The	industry	had	started	to	understand	the	power	of	offering	APIs	to
managed	solutions,	from	SaaS	products	like	Salesforce	to	platforms	like	AWS,
as	it	was	clear	that	an	API	gave	customers	a	lot	more	flexibility	in	how	their
software	was	used.	This	caused	a	number	of	people	to	start	looking	at	the
software	they	already	had	and	consider	the	benefits	of	exposing	that
functionality	to	their	customers	not	just	via	a	GUI	but	also	via	an	API.	The	hope
was	that	this	would	open	up	larger	market	opportunities,	and,	well,	make	more
money.	Amid	this	interest,	a	crop	of	API	gateway	products	emerged	to	help
make	achieving	those	goals	possible.	Their	featureset	leaned	heavily	on
managing	API	keys	for	third	parties,	enforcing	rate	limits,	and	tracking	use	for
--- PAGE 210 ---
chargeback	purposes.	The	reality	is	that	while	APIs	have	absolutely	been	shown
to	be	an	excellent	way	to	deliver	services	to	some	customers,	the	size	of	the	API
economy	wasn’t	quite	as	big	as	some	had	hoped,	and	a	lot	of	companies	found
that	they	had	purchased	API	gateway	products	laden	with	features	they	never
actually	needed.
Much	of	the	time,	all	an	API	gateway	is	actually	being	used	for	is	to	manage
access	to	an	organization’s	microservices	from	its	own	GUI	clients	(web	pages,
native	mobile	applications)	via	the	public	internet.	There	is	no	“third	party”	in
the	mix	here.	The	need	for	some	form	of	an	API	gateway	for	Kubernetes	is
essential,	as	Kubernetes	natively	handles	networking	only	within	the	cluster	and
does	nothing	about	handling	communication	to	and	from	the	cluster	itself.	But	in
such	a	use	case,	an	API	gateway	designed	for	external	third-party	access	is	huge
overkill.
So	if	you	want	an	API	gateway,	be	really	clear	in	what	you	expect	from	it.	In
fact,	I’d	go	a	bit	further	and	say	that	you	should	probably	avoid	having	an	API
gateway	that	does	too	much.	But	we’ll	get	to	that	next.
Where	to	use	them
Once	you	start	to	understand	what	sort	of	use	cases	you	have,	it	becomes	a	bit
easier	to	see	what	type	of	gateway	you	need.	If	it’s	just	a	case	of	exposing
microservices	running	in	Kubernetes,	you	could	run	your	own	reverse	proxies—
or	better	yet,	you	could	
look	at	a	focused	product	like	Ambassador,	which	was
built	from	the	ground	up	with	that	use	case	in	mind.	If	you	really	find	yourself
needing	to	manage	large	numbers	of	third-party	users	accessing	your	API,	then
there	are	likely	other	products	to	look	at.	It’s	possible,	in	fact,	that	you	may	end
up	with	more	than	one	gateway	in	the	mix	to	better	handle	separation	of
concerns,	and	I	can	see	that	being	sensible	in	many	situations,	although	the	usual
caveats	around	increasing	the	overall	system	complexity	and	increasing	network
hops	still	apply.
I	have	been	involved	from	time	to	time	in	working	directly	with	vendors	to	help
with	tool	selection.	I	can	say	without	any	hesitation	that	I	have	experienced	more
mis-selling	and	poor	or	cutthroat	behavior	in	the	API	gateway	space	than	in	any
other—and	as	a	result	you	won’t	find	references	to	some	vendor	products	in	this
chapter.	I’ve	put	a	lot	of	that	down	to	VC-backed	companies	that	had	built	a
--- PAGE 211 ---
product	for	the	boom	times	of	the	API	economy,	only	to	find	that	market	doesn’t
exist,	and	so	they	are	fighting	on	two	fronts:	they	are	fighting	over	the	small
number	of	users	that	actually	need	what	the	more	complex	gateways	are
offering,	while	also	losing	business	to	more	focused	API	gateway	products	that
are	built	for	the	vast	majority	of	simpler	needs.
What	to	avoid
Partly	due	to	the	apparent	desperation	of	some	API	gateway	vendors,	all	sorts	of
claims	have	been	made	for	what	these	products	can	do.	This	has	led	to	a	lot	of
misuse	of	these	products,	and	in	turn	to	an	unfortunate	distrust	of	what	is
fundamentally	quite	a	simple	concept.	Two	key	examples	I’ve	seen	of	misuse	of
API	gateways	is	for	call	aggregation	and	protocol	rewriting,	but	I’ve	also	seen	a
wider	push	to	use	API	gateways	for	in-perimeter	(east-west)	calls	too.
In	this	chapter	we’ve	already	briefly	looked	at	the	usefulness	of	a	protocol	like
GraphQL	to	help	us	in	a	situation	in	which	we	need	to	make	a	number	of	calls
and	then	aggregate	and	filter	the	results,	but	people	are	often	tempted	to	solve
this	problem	in	API	gateway	layers	too.	It	starts	off	innocently	enough:	you
combine	a	couple	of	calls	and	return	a	single	payload.	Then	you	start	making
another	downstream	call	as	part	of	the	same	aggregated	flow.	Then	you	start
wanting	to	add	conditional	logic,	and	before	long	you	realize	that	you’ve	baked
core	business	processes	into	a	third-party	tool	that	is	ill	suited	to	the	task.
If	you	find	yourself	needing	to	do	call	aggregation	and	filtering,	then	look	at	the
potential	of	GraphQL	or	the	BFF	pattern,	which	we’ll	cover	in	
Chapter	14
.	If	the
call	aggregation	you	are	performing	is	fundamentally	a	business	process,	then
this	is	better	done	through	an	explicitly	modeled	saga,	which	we’ll	cover	in
Chapter	6
.
Aside	from	the	aggregation	angle,	protocol	rewriting	is	also	often	pushed	as
something	API	gateways	should	be	used	for.	I	remember	one	unnamed	vendor
very	aggressively	promoting	the	idea	that	its	product	could	“change	any	SOAP
API	into	a	REST	API.”	Firstly,	REST	is	an	entire	architectural	mindset	that
cannot	simply	be	implemented	in	a	proxy	layer.	Secondly,	protocol	rewriting,
which	is	fundamentally	what	this	is	trying	to	do,	shouldn’t	be	done	in
intermediate	layers,	as	it’s	pushing	too	much	behavior	to	the	wrong	place.
The	main	problem	with	both	the	protocol	rewriting	capability	and	the
--- PAGE 212 ---
implementation	of	call	aggregation	inside	API	gateways	is	that	we	are	violating
the	rule	of	keeping	the	pipes	dumb,	and	the	endpoints	smart.	The	“smarts”	in	our
system	want	to	live	in	our	code,	where	we	can	have	full	control	over	them.	The
API	gateway	in	this	example	is	a	pipe—we	want	it	as	simple	as	possible.	With
microservices,	we	are	pushing	for	a	model	in	which	changes	can	be	made	and
more	easily	released	through	independent	deployability.	Keeping	smarts	in	our
microservices	helps	this.	If	we	now	also	have	to	make	changes	in	intermediate
layers,	things	become	more	problematic.	Given	the	criticality	of	API	gateways,
changes	to	them	are	often	tightly	controlled.	It	seems	unlikely	that	individual
teams	will	be	given	free	rein	to	self-service	change	these	often	centrally
managed	services.	What	does	that	mean?	Tickets.	To	roll	out	a	change	to	your
software,	you	end	up	having	the	API	gateway	team	make	changes	for	you.	The
more	behavior	you	leak	into	API	gateways	(or	into	enterprise	service	buses),	the
more	you	run	the	risk	of	handoffs,	increased	coordination,	and	slowed	delivery.
The	last	issue	is	the	use	of	an	API	gateway	as	an	intermediary	for	all	inter-
microservice	calls.	This	can	be	extremely	problematic.	If	we	insert	an	API
gateway	or	a	normal	network	proxy	between	two	microservices,	then	we	have
normally	added	at	least	a	single	network	hop.	A	call	from	microservice	A	to
microservice	B	first	goes	from	A	to	the	API	gateway	and	then	from	the	API
gateway	to	B.	We	have	to	consider	the	latency	impact	of	the	additional	network
call	and	the	overhead	of	whatever	the	proxy	is	doing.	Service	meshes,	which	we
explore	next,	are	much	better	placed	to	solve	this	problem.
Service	Meshes
With
	a	service	mesh,	common	functionality	associated	with	inter-microservice
communication	is	pushed	into	the	mesh.	This	reduces	the	functionality	that	a
microservice	needs	to	implement	internally,	while	also	providing	consistency
across	how	certain	things	are	done.
Common	features	implemented	by	service	meshes	include	mutual	TLS,
correlation	IDs,	service	discovery	and	load	balancing,	and	more.	Often	this	type
of	functionality	is	fairly	generic	from	one	microservice	to	the	next,	so	we’d	end
up	making	use	of	a	shared	library	to	handle	it.	But	then	you	have	to	deal	with
what	happens	if	different	microservices	have	different	versions	of	the	libraries
running,	or	what	happens	if	you	have	microservices	written	in	different	runtimes.
--- PAGE 213 ---
Historically	at	least,	Netflix	would	mandate	that	all	nonlocal	network
communication	had	to	be	done	JVM	to	JVM.	This	was	to	ensure	that	the	tried
and	tested	common	libraries	that	are	a	vital	part	of	managing	effective
communication	between	microservices	could	be	reused.	With	the	use	of	a	service
mesh,	though,	we	have	the	possibility	of	reusing	common	inter-microservice
functionality	across	microservices	written	in	different	programming	languages.
Service	meshes	can	also	be	incredibly	useful	in	implementing	standard	behavior
across	microservices	created	by	different	teams—and	the	use	of	a	service	mesh,
especially	on	Kubernetes,	has	increasingly	become	an	assumed	part	of	any	given
platform	you	might	create	for	self-service	deployment	and	management	of
microservices.
Making	it	easy	to	implement	common	behavior	across	microservices	is	one	of
the	big	benefits	of	a	service	mesh.	If	this	common	functionality	was
implemented	solely	through	shared	libraries,	changing	this	behavior	would
require	every	microservice	to	pull	in	a	new	version	of	said	libraries	and	be
deployed	before	that	change	is	live.	With	a	service	mesh,	you	have	much	more
flexibility	in	rolling	out	changes	in	terms	of	inter-microservice	communication
without	requiring	a	rebuild	and	redeploy.
How	they	work
In	general,	we’d	expect	to	have	less	north-south	traffic	than	east-west	traffic	with
a	microservice	architecture.	A	single	north-south	call—placing	an	order,	for
example—could	result	in	multiple	east-west	calls.	This	means	that	when
considering	any	sort	of	proxy	for	in-perimeter	calls,	we	have	to	be	aware	of	the
overhead	these	additional	calls	can	cause,	and	this	is	a	core	consideration	in
terms	of	how	service	meshes	are	built.
Service	meshes	come	in	different	shapes	and	sizes,	but	what	unites	them	is	that
their	architecture	is	based	on	trying	to	limit	the	impact	caused	by	calls	to	and
from	the	proxy.	This	is	achieved	primarily	by	distributing	the	proxy	processes	to
run	on	the	same	physical	machines	as	the	microservice	instances,	to	ensure	that
the	number	of	remote	network	calls	is	limited.	In	
Figure	5-7
	we	see	this	in	action
—the	
Order Processor
	is	sending	a	request	to	the	
Payment
	microservice.	This
call	is	first	routed	locally	to	a	proxy	instance	running	on	the	same	machine	as
Order Processor
,	before	continuing	to	the	
Payment
	microservice	via	its	local
--- PAGE 214 ---
proxy	instance.	The	
Order Processor
	thinks	it’s	making	a	normal	network	call,
unaware	that	the	call	is	routed	locally	on	the	machine,	which	is	significantly
faster	(and	also	less	prone	to	partitions).
Figure	5-7.	
A	service	mesh	is	deployed	to	handle	all	direct	inter-microservice	
communication
A	control	plane	would	sit	on	top	of	the	local	mesh	proxies,	acting	as	both	a	place
in	which	the	behavior	of	these	proxies	can	be	changed	and	a	place	in	which	you
can	collect	information	about	what	the	proxies	are	doing.
When	deploying	on	Kubernetes,	you	would	deploy	each	microservice	instance	in
a	pod	with	its	own	local	proxy.	A	single	pod	is	always	deployed	as	a	single	unit,
so	you	always	know	that	you	have	a	proxy	available.	Moreover,	a	single	proxy
dying	would	impact	only	that	one	pod.	This	setup	also	allows	you	to	configure
each	proxy	differently	for	different	purposes.	We’ll	look	at	these	concepts	in
more	detail	in	
“Kubernetes	and	Container	Orchestration”
.
--- PAGE 215 ---
Many	service	mesh	implementations	use	the	
Envoy
	proxy	for	the	basis	of	these
locally	running	processes.	Envoy	is	a	lightweight	C++	proxy	often	used	as	the
building
	block	for	service	meshes	and	other	types	of	proxy-based	software—it	is
an	important	building	block	for	Istio
	and	Ambassador,	for	example.
These	proxies	are	in	turn	managed	by	a	control	plane.	This	will	be	a	set	of
software	that	helps	you	see	what	is	going	on	and	control	what	is	being	done.
When	using	a	service	mesh	to	implement	mutual	TLS,	for	example,	the	control
plane	would	be	used	to	distribute	client	and	server	certificates.
Aren’t	service	meshes	smart	pipes?
So	all	this	talk	of	pushing	common	behavior	into	a	service	mesh	might	have
alarm	bells	ringing	for	some	of	you.	Isn’t	this	approach	open	to	the	same	sorts	of
problems	as	enterprise	service	buses	or	overly	bloated	API	gateways?	Aren’t	we
at	risk	of	pushing	too	many	“smarts”	into	our	service	mesh?
The	key	thing	to	remember	here	is	that	the	common	behavior	we	are	putting	into
the	mesh	is	not	specific	to	any	one	microservice.	No	business	functionality	has
leaked	to	the	outside.	We’re	configuring	generic	things	like	how	request	time-
outs	are	handled.	In	terms	of	common	behavior	that	might	want	to	be	tweaked
on	a	per-microservice	basis,	that’s	typically	something	that	is	well	catered	for,
without	the	need	for	work	to	be	done	on	a	central	platform.	For	example,	with
Istio,	I	can	define	my	time-out	requirements	on	a	self-service	basis	just	by
changing	my	service	definition.
Do	you	need	one?
When	the	use	of	service	meshes	first	started	becoming	popular,	just	after	the
release	of	the	first	edition	of	this	book,	I	saw	a	lot	of	merit	in	the	idea	but	also
saw	a	lot	of	churn	in	the	space.	Different	deployment	models	were	suggested,
built,	and	then	dropped,	and	the	number	of	companies	offering	solutions	in	this
space	increased	drastically;	but	even	for	those	tools	that	had	been	around	for	a
long	time,	there	was	an	apparent	lack	of	stability.	
Linkerd
,	which	arguably	did	as
much	as	anyone	to	pioneer	this	space,	totally	rebuilt	its	product	from	scratch	in
the	shift	from	v1	to	v2.	
Istio
,	which	was	the	Google-anointed	service	mesh,	took
years	to	get	to	an	initial	1.0	release,	and	even	still	it	had	significant	subsequent
changes	in	its	architecture	(moving	somewhat	ironically,	although	sensibly,	to	a
--- PAGE 216 ---
more	monolithic	deployment	model	for	its	control	plane).
For	much	of	the	last	five	years,	when	I	have	been	asked	“Should	we	get	a	service
mesh?”	my	advice	has	been	“If	you	can	afford	to	wait	six	months	before	making
a	choice,	then	wait	six	months.”	I	was	sold	on	the	idea	but	concerned	about	the
stability.	And	something	like	a	service	mesh	is	not	where	I	personally	want	to
take	a	lot	of	risks—it’s	so	key,	so	essential	to	everything	working	well.	You’re
putting	it	on	your	critical	path.	It’s	up	there	with	selecting	a	message	broker	or
cloud	provider	in	terms	of	how	seriously	I’d	take	it.
Since	then,	I’m	happy	to	say,	this	space	has	matured.	The	churn	to	some	extent
has	slowed,	but	we	still	have	a	(healthy)	plurality	of	vendors.	That	said,	service
meshes	aren’t	for	everyone.	Firstly,	if	you	aren’t	on	Kubernetes,	your	options	are
limited.	Secondly,	they	do	add	complexity.	If	you	have	five	microservices,	I
don’t	think	you	can	easily	justify	a	service	mesh	(it’s	arguable	as	to	whether	you
can	justify	Kubernetes	if	you	only	have	five	microservices!).	For	organizations
that	have	more	microservices,	especially	if	they	want	the	option	for	those
microservices	to	be	written	in	different	programming	languages,	service	meshes
are	well	worth	a	look.	Do	your	homework,	though—switching	between	service
meshes	is	painful!
Monzo	is	one	organization	that	has	spoken	openly	about	how	its	use	of	a	service
mesh	was	essential	in	allowing	it	to	run	its	architecture	at	the	scale	it	does.	Its
use	of	version	1	of	Linkerd	to	help	manage	inter-microservice	RPC	calls	proved
hugely	beneficial.	Interestingly,	
Monzo	had	to	handle
	the	pain	of	a	service	mesh
migration	to	help	it	achieve	the	scale	it	needed	when	the	older	architecture	of
Linkerd	v1	no	longer	met	its	requirements.	In	the	end	it	moved	effectively	to	an
in-house	service	mesh	making	use	of	the	Envoy	proxy.
What	About	Other	Protocols?
API	gateways	and	service	meshes	are	primarily	used	to	handle	HTTP-related
calls.	So	REST,	SOAP,	gRPC,	and	the	like	can	be	managed	via	these	products.
Things	get	a	bit	more	murky,	though,	when	you	start	looking	at	communication
via	other	protocols,	like	the	use	of	message	brokers	such	as	Kafka.	Typically,	at
this	point	the	service	mesh	gets	bypassed—communication	is	done	directly	with
the	broker	itself.	This	means	that	you	cannot	assume	your	service	mesh	is	able	to
work	as	an	intermediary	for	all	calls	between	microservices.
--- PAGE 217 ---
Documenting	Services
By
	decomposing	our	systems	into	finer-grained	microservices,	we’re	hoping	to
expose	lots	of	seams	in	the	form	of	APIs	that	people	can	use	to	do	many
hopefully	wonderful	things.	If	you	get	our	discovery	right,	we	know	where
things	are.	But	how	do	we	know	what	those	things	do	or	how	to	use	them?	One
option	is	obviously	to	have	documentation	about	the	APIs.	Of	course,
documentation	can	often	be	out	of	date.	Ideally,	
we’d
	ensure	that	our
documentation	is	always	up	to	date	with	the	microservice	API	and	make	it	easy
to	see	this	documentation	when	we	know	where	a	service	endpoint	is.
Explicit	Schemas
Having
	explicit	schemas	does	go	a	long	way	toward	making	it	easier	to
understand	what	any	given	endpoint	exposes,	but	by	themselves	they	are	often
not	enough.	As	we’ve	already	discussed,	schemas	help	show	the	structure,	but
they	don’t	go	very	far	in	helping	communicate	the	behavior	of	an	endpoint,	so
good	documentation	could	still	be	required	to	help	consumers	understand	how	to
use	an	endpoint.	It’s	worth	noting,	of	course,	that	if	you	decide	not	to	use	an
explicit	schema,	your	documentation	will	end	up	doing	
more
	work.	You’ll	need
to	explain	what	the	endpoint	does	and	also	document	the	structure	and	detail	of
the	interface.	Moreover,	without	an	explicit	schema,	detecting	whether	your
documentation	is	up	to	date	with	the	real	endpoints	is	more	difficult.	Stale
documentation	is	an	ongoing	problem,	but	at	least	an	explicit	schema	gives	you
more	chance	of	it	being	up	to	date.
I’ve
	already	introduced	OpenAPI	as	a	schema	format,	but	it	also	is	very	effective
in	providing	documentation,	and	a	lot	of	open	source	and	commercial	tools	now
exist	that	can	support	consuming	the	OpenAPI	descriptors	to	help	create	useful
portals	to	allow	developers	to	read	the	documentation.	It’s	worth	noting	that	the
open	source	portals	for	viewing	OpenAPI	seem	somewhat	basic—I	struggled	to
find	one	that	supported	search	functionality,	for	example.	For	those	on
Kubernetes,	Ambassador’s	
developer	portal
	is	especially	interesting.
Ambassador	is	already	a	popular	choice	as	an	API	gateway	for	Kubernetes,	and
its	Developer	Portal	has	the	ability	to	autodiscover	available	OpenAPI
endpoints.	The	idea	of	deploying	a	new	microservice	and	having	its
documentation	automatically	available	greatly	appeals	to	me.
--- PAGE 218 ---
In	the	past	we’ve	lacked	good	support	for	documenting	event-based	interfaces.
Now	at	least	we	have	options.	The	AsyncAPI	format	started	off	as	an	adaptation
of	OpenAPI,	and	we	also	now	have	CloudEvents,	which	is	a	CNCF	project.	I’ve
not	used	either	in	anger	(that	is,	in	a	real	setting),	but	I’m	more	drawn	to
CloudEvents	purely	because	it	seems	to	have	a	wealth	of	integration	and
support,	due	in	large	part	to	its	association	with	the	CNCF.	Historically,	at	least,
CloudEvents	seemed	to	be	more	restrictive	in	terms	of	the	event	format
compared	to	AsyncAPI,	with	only	JSON	being	properly	supported,	until
protocol	buffer	support	was	recently	reintroduced	after	previously	being
removed;	so	that	may	be	a	consideration.
The	Self-Describing	System
During
	the	early	evolution	of	SOA,	standards	like	Universal	Description,
Discovery,	and	Integration	(UDDI)	emerged	to	help	us	make	sense	of	what
services	were	running.	These	approaches	were	fairly	heavyweight,	which	led	to
alternative	techniques	to	try	to	make	sense	of	our	systems.	Martin	Fowler
	has
discussed	the	concept	of	the	
humane	registry
,	a	much	more	lightweight	approach
in	which	humans	can	record	information	about	the	services	in	the	organization	in
something	as	basic	as	a	wiki.
Getting	a	picture	of	our	system	and	how	it	is	behaving	is	important,	especially
when	we’re	at	scale.	We’ve	covered	a	number	of	different	techniques	that	will
help	us	gain	understanding	directly	from	our	system.	By	tracking	the	health	of
our	downstream	services	together	with	correlation	IDs	to	help	us	see	call	chains,
we	can	get	real	data	in	terms	of	how	our	services	interrelate.	Using	service
discovery	systems	like	Consul,	we	can	see	where	our	microservices	are	running.
Mechanisms	like	OpenAPI	and	CloudEvents	can	help	us	see	what	capabilities
are	being	hosted	on	any	given	endpoint,	while	our	health	check	pages	and
monitoring	systems	let	us	know	the	health	of	both	the	overall	system	and
individual	services.
All	of	this	information	is	available	programmatically.	All	of	this	data	allows	us
to	make	our	humane	registry	more	powerful	than	a	simple	wiki	page	that	will	no
doubt	get	out	of	date.	Instead,	we	should	use	it	to	harness	and	display	all	the
information	our	system	will	be	emitting.	By	creating	custom	dashboards,	we	can
pull	together	the	vast	array	of	information	that	is	available	to	help	us	make	sense
--- PAGE 219 ---
of	our	ecosystem.
By	all	means,	start	with	something	as	simple	as	a	static	web	page	or	wiki	that
perhaps	scrapes	in	a	bit	of	data	from	the	live	system.	But	look	to	pull	in	more
and	more	information	over	time.	Making	this	information	readily	available	is	a
key	tool	for	managing	the	emerging	complexity	that	will	come	from	running
these	systems	at	scale.
I’ve	spoken	with	a	number	of	companies	that	have	had	these	issues	and	that
ended	up	creating	simple	in-house	registries	to	help	collate	metadata	around
services.	Some	of	these	registries	simply	crawl	source	code	repositories,	looking
for	metadata	files	to	build	up	a	list	of	services	out	there.	This	information	can	be
merged	with	real	data	coming	from	service	discovery	systems	like	Consul	or
etcd	to	build	up	a	richer	picture	of	what	is	running	and	whom	you	could	speak	to
about	it.
The	
Financial	Times
	created
	Biz	Ops	to	help	address	this	problem.	The	company
has	several	hundred	services	developed	by	teams	all	over	the	world.	The	Biz	Ops
tool	(
Figure	5-8
)	gives	the	company	a	single	place	where	you	can	find	out	lots	of
useful	information	about	its	microservices,	in	addition	to	information	about	other
IT	infrastructure	services	such	as	networks	and	file	servers.	Built	on	top	of	a
graph	database,	Biz	Ops	has	a	lot	of	flexibility	about	what	data	it	gathers	and
how	the	information	can	be	modeled.
--- PAGE 220 ---
Figure	5-8.	
The	Financial	Times	Biz	Ops	tool,	which	collates	information	about	its	microservices
The	Biz	Ops	tool	goes	further	than	most	of	the	similar	tools	I	have	seen,
however.	The	tool	calculates	what	it	calls	a	System	Operability	Score,	as	shown
in	
Figure	5-9
.	The	idea	is	that	there	are	certain	things	that	services	and	their
teams	should	do	to	ensure	the	services	can	be	easily	operated.	This	can	range
from	making	sure	the	teams	have	provided	the	correct	information	in	the	registry
to	ensuring	the	services	have	proper	health	checks.	The	System	Operability
Score,	once	calculated,	allows	teams	to	see	at	a	glance	if	there	are	things	that
need	to	be	fixed.
This
	is	a	growing	space.	In	the	open	source	world,	Spotify’s	
Backstage
	tool
offers	a	mechanism	for	building	a	service	catalog	like	Biz	Ops,	with	a	plug-in
model	to	allow	for	sophisticated	additions,	such	as	being	able	to	trigger	the
creation	of	a	new	microservice	or	pulling	in	live	information	from	a	Kubernetes
--- PAGE 221 ---
cluster.	Ambassador’s	own	
Service	Catalog
	is	more	narrowly	focused	on
visibility	of	services	in	Kubernetes,	which	means	it	might	not	have	as	much
general	appeal	as	something	like	the	FT’s	
Biz	Ops
,	but	it’s	nonetheless	good	to
see	some	new	takes	on	this	idea	that	are	more	generally	available.
Figure	5-9.	
An	example	of	the	Service	Operability	Score	for	a	microservice	at	the	
Financial	Times
Summary
So	we’ve	covered	a	lot	of	ground	in	this	chapter—let’s	break	some	of	it	down:
To	begin	with,	ensure	that	the	problem	you	are	trying	to	solve	guides
your	technology	choice.	Based	on	your	context	and	your	preferred
communication	style,	select	the	technology	that	is	most	appropriate	for
you—don’t	fall	into	the	trap	of	picking	the	technology	first.	The
summary	of	styles	of	inter-microservice	communication,	first
introduced	in	
Chapter	4
	and	shown	again	in	
Figure	5-10
,	can	help	guide
your	decision	making,	but	just	following	this	model	isn’t	a	replacement
for	sitting	down	and	thinking	about	your	own	situation.
--- PAGE 222 ---
Figure	5-10.	
Different	styles	of	inter-microservice	communication,	along	with	example	implementing
technologies
Whatever	choice	you	make,	consider	the	use	of	schemas,	in	part	to	help
make	your	contracts	more	explicit	but	also	to	help	catch	accidental
breaking	changes.
Where	possible,	strive	to	make	changes	that	are	backward	compatible	to
ensure	that	independent	deployability	remains	a	possibility.
If	you	do	have	to	make	backward-incompatible	changes,	find	a	way	to
allow	consumers	time	to	upgrade	to	avoid	lockstep	deployments.
Think	about	what	you	can	do	to	help	surface	information	about	your
endpoints	to	humans—consider	the	use	of	humane	registries	and	the
like	to	help	make	sense	of	the	chaos.
We’ve	looked	at	how	we	can	implement	a	call	between	two	microservices,	but
what	happens	when	we	need	to	coordinate	operations	between	multiple
microservices?	That	will	be	the	focus	of	our	next	chapter.
1
	Martin	Fowler	explores	this	in	more	detail	in	the	context	of	
schemaless	data	storage
.
2
	Note	that	there	are	actually	three	different	tools	in	this	space	with	the	same	name!	The	openapi-diff
tool	at	
https://github.com/Azure/openapi-diff
	seems
	to	get	closest	to	a	tool	that	actually	passes	or	fails
compatibility.

================================================================================
Ch6 Workflow / sagas (PDF pages 223-250)
================================================================================

--- PAGE 223 ---
Chapter	6.	
Workflow
In	the	previous	two	chapters,	we’ve	looked	at	aspects	of	microservices	related	to
how	one	microservice	talks	to	another.	But	what	happens	when	we	want	multiple
microservices	to	collaborate,	perhaps	to	implement	a	business	process?	How	we
model	and	implement	these	sorts	of	workflows	in	distributed	systems	can	be	a
tricky	thing	to	get	right.
In	this	chapter,	we’ll	look	at	the	pitfalls	associated	with	using	distributed
transactions	to	solve	this	problem,	and	we’ll	also	look	at	sagas—a	concept	that
can	help	us	model	our	microservice	workflows	in	a	much	more	satisfactory
manner.
Database	Transactions
Generically
	speaking,	when	we	think	of	a	transaction	in	the	context	of
computing,	we	think	of	one	or	more	actions	that	are	going	to	occur	that	we	want
to	treat	as	a	single	unit.	When	making	multiple	changes	as	part	of	the	same
overall	operation,	we	want	to	confirm	whether	all	the	changes	have	been	made.
We	also	want	a	way	to	clean	up	after	ourselves	if	an	error	occurs	while	these
changes	are	happening.	Typically,	this	results	in	us	using	something	like	a
database	transaction.
With	a	database,	we	use	a	transaction	to	ensure	that	one	or	more	state	changes
have	been	made	successfully.	This	could	include	data	being	removed,	inserted,
or	changed.	In	a	relational	database,	this	could	involve	multiple	tables	being
updated	within	a	single	transaction.
ACID	Transactions
Typically
	when	we	talk	about	database	transactions,	we	are	talking	about	ACID
transactions.	ACID	is	an	acronym	outlining	the	key	properties	of	database
transactions	that	lead	to	a	system	we	can	rely	on	to	ensure	the	durability	and
consistency	of	our	data	storage.	
ACID
	stands	for	
atomicity,	consistency,
--- PAGE 224 ---
isolation,	and	durability
,	and	here	is	what	these	properties	give	us:
Atomicity
Ensures	that	the	operations	attempted	within	the	transaction	either	all
complete	or	all	fail.	If	any	of	the	changes	we’re	trying	to	make	fail	for	some
reason,	then	the	whole	operation	is	aborted,	and	it’s	as	though	no	changes
were	ever	made.
Consistency
When	changes	are	made	to	our	database,	we	ensure	it	is	left	in	a	valid,
consistent	state.
Isolation
Allows	multiple	transactions	to	operate	at	the	same	time	without	interfering.
This	is	achieved	by	ensuring	that	any	interim	state	changes	made	during	one
transaction	are	invisible	to	other	transactions.
Durability
Makes	sure	that	once	a	transaction	has	been	completed,	we	are	confident	the
data	won’t	get	lost	in	the	event	of	some	system	failure.
It’s	worth	noting	that	not	all	databases	provide	ACID	transactions.	All	relational
database	systems	I’ve	ever	used	do,	as	do	many	of	the	newer	NoSQL	databases
like	Neo4j.	MongoDB	for	many	years	supported	ACID	transactions	only	on
changes	being	made	to	a	single	document,	which	could	cause	issues	if	you
wanted	to	make	an	atomic	update	to	more	than	one	document.
This	isn’t	the	book	for	a	detailed	exploration	into	these	concepts;	I’ve	certainly
simplified	some	of	these	descriptions	for	the	sake	of	brevity.	For	those	who
would	like	to	explore	these	concepts	further,	I	recommend	
Designing	Data-
Intensive	Applications
.
	We’ll	mostly	concern	ourselves	with	atomicity	in	what
follows.	That’s	not	to	say	that	the	other	properties	aren’t	also	important,	but
grappling	with	how	to	deal	with	the	atomicity	of	database	operations	tends	to	be
the	first	issue	we	hit	when	we	start	breaking	apart	functionality	into
microservices.
1
2
--- PAGE 225 ---
Still	ACID,	but	Lacking	Atomicity?
I
	want	to	be	clear	that	we	can	still	use	ACID-style	transactions	when	using
microservices.	A	microservice	is	free	to	use	an	ACID	transaction	for	operations
to	its	own	database,	for	example.	It’s	just	that	the	scope	of	these	transactions	is
reduced	to	state	change	that	happens	locally	within	that	single	microservice.
Consider	
Figure	6-1
.	Here,	we	are	keeping	track	of	the	process	involved	in
onboarding	a	new	customer	to	MusicCorp.	We’ve	reached	the	end	of	the
process,	which	involves	changing	the	
Status
	of	customer	
2346
	from	
PENDING
	to
VERIFIED
.	As	the	enrollment	is	now	complete,	we	also	want	to	remove	the
matching	row	from	the	
PendingEnrollments
	table.	With	a	single	database,	this
is	done	in	the	scope	of	a	single	ACID	database	transaction—either	both	of	these
state	changes	occur,	or	neither	occurs.
Figure	6-1.	
Updating	two	tables	in	the	scope	of	a	single	ACID	transaction
Compare	this	with	
Figure	6-2
,	where	we’re	making	exactly	the	same	change,	but
each	change	is	made	in	a	different	database.	This	means	there	are	two
transactions	to	consider,	each	of	which	could	work	or	fail	independently	of	the
--- PAGE 226 ---
other.
Figure	6-2.	
Changes	made	by	the	
Customer
	and	
Enrollments
	microservices	are	now	done	in	the	scope	of
two	different	transactions
We	could	decide	to	sequence	these	two	transactions,	of	course,	removing	a	row
from	the	
PendingEnrollments
	table	only	if	we	could	change	the	row	in	the
Customer
	table.	But	we’d	still	have	to	reason	about	what	to	do	if	the	deletion
from	the	
PendingEnrollments
	table	then	failed—all	logic	that	we’d	need	to
implement	ourselves.	Being	able	to	reorder	steps	to	better	handle	these	use	cases
can	be	a	really	useful	idea,	though	(one	we’ll	come	back	to	when	we	explore
sagas).	But	fundamentally,	we	have	to	accept	that	by	decomposing	this	operation
into	two	separate	database	transactions,	we’ve	lost	guaranteed	atomicity	of	the
operation	as	a	whole.
This	lack	of	atomicity	can	start	to	cause	significant	problems,	especially	if	we
are	migrating	systems	that	previously	relied	on	this	property.	Normally,	the	first
option	that	people	start	considering	is	still	using	a	single	transaction,	but	one	that
now	spans	multiple	processes—a	distributed	transaction.	Unfortunately,	as	we’ll
--- PAGE 227 ---
see,	distributed	transactions	may	not	be	the	right	way	forward.	Let’s	look	at	one
of	the	most	common	algorithms	for	implementing	distributed	transactions,	the
two-phase	commit,	as	a	way	of	exploring	the	challenges	associated	with
distributed	transactions	as	a	whole.
Distributed	Transactions—Two-Phase	Commits
The
	
two-phase	commit	algorithm
	(sometimes	shortened	to	
2PC
)	is	frequently
used	in	an	attempt	to	give	us	the	ability	to	make	transactional	changes	in	a
distributed	system,	where	multiple	separate	processes	may	need	to	be	updated	as
part	of	the	overall	operation.	Distributed	transactions,	and	two-phased	commits
more	specifically,	are	frequently	considered	by	teams	moving	to	microservice
architectures	as	a	way	of	solving	challenges	they	face.	But	as	we’ll	see,	they
might	not	solve	your	problems	and	may	bring	even	more	confusion	to	your
system.
The	2PC	is	broken	into	two	phases	(hence	the	name	
two-phase	commit
):	a	voting
phase	and	a	commit	phase.	During
	the	
voting	phase
,	a	central	coordinator
contacts	all	the	workers	who	are	going	to	be	part	of	the	transaction	and	asks	for
confirmation	as	to	whether	or	not	some	state	change	can	be	made.	In	
Figure	6-3
,
we	see	two	requests:	one	to	change	a	customer	status	to	
VERIFIED
,	and	another
to	remove	a	row	from	our	
PendingEnrollments
	table.	If	all	workers	agree	that
the	state	change	they	are	asked	for	can	take	place,	the	algorithm	proceeds	to	the
next	phase.	If	any	worker	says	the	change	cannot	take	place,	perhaps	because	the
requested	state	change	violates	some	local	condition,	the	entire	operation	aborts.
--- PAGE 228 ---
Figure	6-3.	
In	the	first	phase	of	a	two-phase	commit,	workers	vote	to	decide	if	they	can	carry	out	some	local
state	change
It’s	important	to	highlight	that	the	change	does	not	take	effect	immediately	after
a	worker	indicates	that	it	can	make	the	change.	Instead,	the	worker	is
guaranteeing	that	it	will	be	able	to	make	that	change	at	some	point	in	the	future.
How	would	the	worker	make	such	a	guarantee?	In	
Figure	6-3
,	for	example,
Worker A
	has	said	it	will	be	able	to	change	the	state	of	the	row	in	the	
Customer
table	to	update	that	specific	customer’s	status	to	
VERIFIED
.	What	if	a	different
operation	at	some	later	point	deletes	the	row,	or	makes	some	other	smaller
change	that	nonetheless	means	that	a	change	to	
VERIFIED
	later	is	invalid?	To
guarantee	that	the	change	to	
VERIFIED
	can	be	made	later,	
Worker A
	will	likely
have	to	lock	the	record	to	ensure	that	other	changes	cannot	take	place.
If	any	workers	didn’t	vote	in	favor	of	the	commit,	a	rollback	message	needs	to
be	sent	to	all	parties	to	ensure	that	they	can	clean	up	locally,	which	allows	the
workers	to	release	any	locks	they	may	be	holding.	If	all	workers	agreed	to	make
the	change,	we	move	to	the	commit	phase,	as	in	
Figure	6-4
.	Here,	the	changes
are	actually	made,	and	associated	locks	are	released.
--- PAGE 229 ---
Figure	6-4.	
In	the	commit	phase	of	a	two-phase	commit,	changes	are	actually	applied
It’s	important	to	note	that	in	such	a	system,	we	cannot	in	any	way	guarantee	that
these	commits	will	occur	at	exactly	the	same	time.	The	
Coordinator
	needs	to
send	the	commit	request	to	all	participants,	and	that	message	could	arrive	and	be
processed	at	different	times.	This	means	that	it’s	possible	we	could	see	the
change	made	to	
Worker A
	but	not	yet	to	
Worker B
,	if	we	could	directly	observe
the	state	of	either	worker.	The	more	latency	there	is	between	the	
Coordinator
and	the	participants	in	the	two-phase	commit,	and	the	more	slowly	the	workers
process	the	response,	the	wider	this	window	of	inconsistency	might	be.	Coming
back	to	our	definition	of	ACID,	
isolation
	ensures	that	we	don’t	see	intermediate
states	during	a	transaction.	But	with	this	two-phase	commit,	we’ve	lost	that
guarantee.
When	a	two-phase	commit	works,	at	its	heart	it	is	very	often	just	coordinating
distributed	locks.	The	workers	need	to	lock	local	resources	to	ensure	that	the
commit	can	take	place	during	the	second	phase.	Managing	locks	and	avoiding
deadlocks	in	a	single-process	system	isn’t	fun.	Now	imagine	the	challenges	of
coordinating	locks	among	multiple	participants.	It’s	not	pretty.
There	are	a	host	of	failure	modes	associated	with	two-phase	commits	that	we
don’t	have	time	to	explore.	Consider	the	problem	of	a	worker	voting	to	proceed
--- PAGE 230 ---
with	the	transaction	but	then	not	responding	when	asked	to	commit.	What	should
we	do	then?	Some	of	these	failure	modes	can	be	handled	automatically,	but	some
can	leave	the	system	in	such	a	state	that	things	need	to	be	fixed	manually	by	an
operator.
The	more	participants	you	have,	and	the	more	latency	you	have	in	the	system,
the	more	issues	a	two-phase	commit	will	have.	2PC	can	be	a	quick	way	to	inject
huge	amounts	of	latency	into	your	system,	especially	if	the	scope	of	locking	is
large,	or	if	the	duration	of	the	transaction	is	large.	It’s	for	this	reason	two-phase
commits	are	typically	used	only	for	very	short-lived	operations.	The	longer	the
operation	takes,	the	longer	you’ve	got	resources	locked!
Distributed	Transactions—Just	Say	No
For
	all	the	reasons	outlined	so	far,	I	strongly	suggest	you	avoid	the	use	of
distributed	transactions	like	the	two-phase	commit	to	coordinate	changes	in	state
across	your	microservices.	So	what	else	can	you	do?
Well,	the	first	option	could	be	to	just	not	split	the	data	apart	in	the	first	place.	If
you	have	pieces	of	state	that	you	want	to	manage	in	a	truly	atomic	and	consistent
way,	and	you	cannot	work	out	how	to	sensibly	get	these	characteristics	without
an	ACID-style	transaction,	then	leave	that	state	in	a	single	database,	and	leave
the	functionality	that	manages	that	state	in	a	single	service	(or	in	your	monolith).
If	you’re	in	the	process	of	working	out	where	to	split	your	monolith	and	what
decompositions	might	be	easy	(or	hard),	then	you	could	well	decide	that	splitting
apart	data	that	is	currently	managed	in	a	transaction	is	just	too	difficult	to	handle
right	now.	Work	on	some	other	area	of	the	system,	and	come	back	to	this	later.
But	what	happens	if	you	really	do	need	to	break	this	data	apart,	but	you	don’t
want	all	the	pain	of	managing	distributed	transactions?	
How	can	you	carry	out
operations	in	multiple	services	but	avoid	locking?	What	if	the	operation	is	going
to	take	minutes,	days,	or	perhaps	even	months?	In	cases	like	this,	you	may
consider	an	alternative	approach:	sagas.
DATABASE	DISTRIBUTED	TRANSACTIONS
I	am	arguing	against	the	general	use	of	distributed	transactions	to	coordinate
--- PAGE 231 ---
state	change	across	microservices.	In	such	situations,	each	microservice	is
managing	its	own	local	durable	state	(e.g.,	in	its	database).	Distributed
transactional	algorithms	are	being	used	successfully	for	some	large-scale
databases,	Google’s	Spanner	being	one	such	system.	In	this	situation,	the
distributed	transaction	is	being	applied	transparently	from	an	application’s
point	of	view	by	the	underling	database,	and	the	distributed	transaction	is
just	being	used	to	coordinate	state	changes	within	a	single	logical	database
(albeit	one	that	might	be	distributed	across	multiple	machines,	and
potentially	across	multiple	data	centers).
What	Google	has	managed	to	achieve	with	Spanner	is	impressive,	but	it’s
also	worth	noting	that	what	it	had	to	do	to	make	this	work	gives	you	an	idea
of	the	challenges	involved.	Let’s	just	say	it	involves	very	expensive	data
centers	and	satellite-based	atomic	clocks	(really).	For	a	good	overview	of
how	Spanner	makes	this	work,	I	recommend	the	presentation	“Google	Cloud
Spanner:	Global	Consistency	at	Scale.”
Sagas
Unlike
	a	two-phase	commit,	a	
saga
	is	by	design	an	algorithm	that	can	coordinate
multiple	changes	in	state,	but	avoids	the	need	for	locking	resources	for	long
periods	of	time.	A	saga	does	this	by	modeling	the	steps	involved	as	discrete
activities	that	can	be	executed	independently.	Using	sagas	comes	with	the	added
benefit	of	forcing	us	to	explicitly	model	our	business	processes,	which	can	have
significant	benefits.
The
	core	idea,	first	outlined	in	“Sagas”	by	Hector	Garcia-Molina	and	Kenneth
Salem,
	addresses	how	best	to	handle	operations	known	as	
long	lived
transactions
	(LLTs).	These	transactions	might	take	a	long	time	(minutes,	hours,
or	perhaps	even	days)	and	as	part	of	that	process	require	changes	to	be	made	to	a
database.
If	you	directly	mapped	an	LLT	to	a	normal	database	transaction,	a	single
database	transaction	would	span	the	entire	life	cycle	of	the	LLT.	This	could
result	in	multiple	rows	or	even	full	tables	being	locked	for	long	periods	of	time
while	the	LLT	is	taking	place,	causing	significant	issues	if	other	processes	are
3
4
--- PAGE 232 ---
trying	to	read	or	modify	these	locked	resources.
Instead,	the	authors	of	the	paper	suggest	we	should	break	down	these	LLTs	into	a
sequence	of	transactions,	each	of	which	can	be	handled	independently.	The	idea
is	that	the	duration	of	each	of	these	“sub”	transactions	will	be	shorter,	and	will
modify	only	part	of	the	data	affected	by	the	entire	LLT.	As	a	result,	there	will	be
far	less	contention	in	the	underlying	database	as	the	scope	and	duration	of	locks
is	greatly	reduced.
While
	sagas	were	originally	envisaged	as	a	mechanism	to	help	with	LLTs	acting
against	a	single	database,	the	model	works	just	as	well	for	coordinating	change
across	multiple	services.	We	can	break	a	single	business	process	into	a	set	of
calls	that	will	be	made	to	collaborating	services—this	is	what	constitutes	a	saga.
NOTE
Before
	we	go	any	further,	you	need	to	understand	that	a	saga	does	
not
	give	us	atomicity	in
ACID	terms	such	as	we	are	used	to	with	a	normal	database	transaction.	As	we	break	the	LLT
into	individual	transactions,	we	don’t	have	atomicity	at	the	level	of	the	saga	itself.	We	do	have
atomicity	for	each	individual	transaction	inside	the	overall	saga,	as	each	one	of	them	can	relate
to	an	ACID	transactional	change	if	needed.	What	a	saga	gives	us	is	enough	information	to
reason	about	which	state	it’s	in;	it’s	up	to	us	to	handle	the	implications	of	this.
Let’s	take	a	look	at	a	simple	order	fulfillment	flow	for	MusicCorp,	outlined	in
Figure	6-5
,	which	we	can	use	to	further	explore	sagas	in	the	context	of	a
microservice	architecture.
Here,	the	order	fulfillment	process	is	represented	as	a	single	saga,	with	each	step
in	this	flow	representing	an	operation	that	can	be	carried	out	by	a	different
service.	Within	each	service,	any	state	change	can	be	handled	within	a	local
ACID	transaction.	For	example,	when	we	check	and	reserve	stock	using	the
Warehouse
	service,	internally	the	
Warehouse
	service	might	create	a	row	in	its
local	
Reservation
	table	recording	the	reservation;	this	change	would	be
handled	within	a	normal	database	transaction.
--- PAGE 233 ---
Figure	6-5.	
An	example	order	fulfillment	flow,	along	with	the	services	responsible	for	carrying	out	the
operation
Saga	Failure	Modes
--- PAGE 234 ---
With
	a	saga	being	broken	into	individual	transactions,	we	need	to	consider	how
to	handle	failure—or,	more	specifically,	how	to	recover	when	a	failure	happens.
The	original	saga	paper	describes	two	types	of	recovery:	backward	recovery	and
forward	recovery.
Backward	recovery
	involves	reverting	the	failure	and	cleaning	up	afterwards—a
rollback.	For	this	to	work,	we	need	to	define	compensating	actions	that	allow	us
to	undo	previously	committed	transactions.	
Forward	recovery
	allows	us	to	pick
up	from	the	point	where	the	failure	occurred	and	keep	processing.	For	that	to
work,	we	need	to	be	able	to	retry	transactions,	which	in	turn	implies	that	our
system	is	persisting	enough	information	to	allow	this	retry	to	take	place.
Depending	on	the	nature	of	the	business	process	being	modeled,	you	may	expect
that	any	failure	mode	triggers	a	backward	recovery,	a	forward	recovery,	or
perhaps	a	mix	of	the	two.
It’s
	really	important	to	note	that	a	saga	allows	us	to	recover	from	
business
failures,	not	
technical
	failures.	For	example,	if	we	try	and	take	payment	from	the
customer	but	the	customer	has	insufficient	funds,	then	this	is	a	business	failure
that	the	saga	should	be	expected	to	handle.	On	the	other	hand,	if	the	
Payment
Gateway
	times	out	or	throws	a	
500 Internal Service Error
,	then	this	is	a
technical	failure	that	we	need	to	handle	separately.	The	saga	assumes	the
underlying	components	are	working	properly—that	the	underlying	system	is
reliable,	and	that	we	are	then	coordinating	the	work	of	reliable	components.
We’ll	explore	some	of	the	ways	we	can	make	our	technical	components	more
reliable	in	
Chapter	12
,	but	for	more	on	this	limitation	of	sagas,	I	recommend
“The	Limits	of	the	Saga	Pattern”
	by	Uwe	
Friedrichsen.
Saga	rollbacks
With
	an	ACID	transaction,	if	we	hit	a	problem,	we	trigger	a	rollback	before	a
commit	occurs.	After	the	rollback,	it	is	like	nothing	ever	happened:	the	change
we	were	trying	to	make	didn’t	take	place.	With	our	saga,	though,	we	have
multiple	transactions	involved,	and	some	of	those	may	have	already	committed
before	we	decide	to	roll	back	the	entire	operation.	So	how	can	we	roll	back
transactions	after	they	have	already	been	committed?
Let’s	come	back	to	our	example	of	processing	an	order,	as	outlined	in	
Figure	6-5
.
Consider	a	potential	failure	mode.	We’ve	gotten	as	far	as	trying	to	package	the
--- PAGE 235 ---
item,	only	to	find	the	item	can’t	be	found	in	the	warehouse,	as	shown	in
Figure	6-6
.	Our	system	thinks	the	item	exists,	but	it’s	just	not	on	the	shelf!
Now,	let’s	assume	that	we	decide	we	want	to	just	roll	back	the	entire	order,
rather	than	giving	the	customer	the	option	for	the	item	to	be	placed	on	back
order.	The	problem	is	that	we’ve	already	taken	payment	and	awarded	loyalty
points	for	the	order.
If	these	steps	had	all	been	done	in	a	single	database	transaction,	a	simple
rollback	would	clean	it	all	up.	However,	each	step	in	the	order	fulfillment
process	was	handled	by	a	different	service	call,	each	of	which	operated	in	a
different	transactional	scope.	There	is	no	simple	“rollback”	for	the	entire
operation.
--- PAGE 236 ---
Figure	6-6.	
We’ve	tried	to	package	our	item,	but	we	can’t	find	it	in	the	warehouse
Instead,	if	you	want	to	implement	a	rollback,	you	need	to	implement	a
compensating	transaction.	A
	
compensating	transaction
	is	an	operation	that
--- PAGE 237 ---
undoes	a	previously	committed	transaction.	To	roll	back	our	order	fulfillment
process,	we	would	trigger	the	compensating	transaction	for	each	step	in	our	saga
that	has	already	been	committed,	as	shown	in	
Figure	6-7
.
It’s	worth	calling	out	the	fact	that	these	compensating	transactions	may	not
behave	exactly	as	those	of	a	normal	database	rollback.	A	database	rollback
happens	before	the	commit,	and	after	the	rollback,	it	is	as	though	the	transaction
never	happened.	In	this	situation,	of	course,	these	transactions	
did
	happen.	We
are	creating	a	new	transaction	that	reverts	the	changes	made	by	the	original
transaction,	but	we	can’t	roll	back	time	and	make	it	as	though	the	original
transaction	didn’t	occur.
Figure	6-7.	
Triggering	a	rollback	of	the	entire	saga
Because
	we	cannot	always	cleanly	revert	a	transaction,	we	say	that	these
compensating	transactions	are	
semantic	rollbacks
.	We	cannot	always	clean	up
--- PAGE 238 ---
everything,	but	we	do	enough	for	the	context	of	our	saga.	As	an	example,	one	of
our	steps	may	have	involved	sending	an	email	to	a	customer	to	tell	them	their
order	was	on	the	way.	If	we	decide	to	roll	that	back,	we	can’t	unsend	an	email!
Instead,	our	compensating	transaction	could	cause	a	second	email	to	be	sent	to
the	customer,	informing	them	that	there	was	a	problem	with	the	order	and	it	has
canceled.
It	is	totally	appropriate	for	information	related	to	the	rollback	to	persist	in	the
system.	In	fact,	this	may	be	very	important	information.	You	may	want	to	keep	a
record	in	the	
Order
	service	for	this	aborted	order,	along	with	information	about
what	happened,	for	a	whole	host	of	reasons.
Reordering	workflow	steps	to	reduce	rollbacks
In	
Figure	6-7
,	we
	could	have	made	our	likely	rollback	scenarios	somewhat
simpler	by	reordering	the	steps	in	our	original	workflow.	A	simple	change	would
be	to	award	points	only	when	the	order	is	actually	dispatched,	as	seen	in
Figure	6-8
.
5
--- PAGE 239 ---
Figure	6-8.	
Moving	steps	later	in	the	saga	can	reduce	what	has	to	be	rolled	back	in	case	of	a	failure
In	this	way	we	would	avoid	having	to	worry	about	that	stage	being	rolled	back	if
we	were	to	have	a	problem	while	trying	to	package	and	send	the	order.
Sometimes	you	can	simplify	your	rollback	operations	just	by	tweaking	how	your
workflow	is	carried	out.	By	pulling	forward	those	steps	that	are	most	likely	to
fail	and	failing	the	process	earlier,	you	avoid	having	to	trigger	later
compensating	transactions,	as	those	steps	weren’t	even	triggered	in	the	first
--- PAGE 240 ---
place.
These	changes,	if	they	can	be	accommodated,	can	make	your	life	much	easier,
avoiding	the	need	to	even	create	compensating	transactions	for	some	steps.	This
can	be	especially	important	if	implementing	a	compensating	transaction	is
difficult.	You	may	be	able	to	move	a	step	later	in	the	process	to	a	stage	at	which
it	never	needs	to	be	rolled	back.
Mixing	fail-backward	and	fail-forward	situations
It	is	totally	appropriate	to	have	a	mix	of	failure	recovery	modes.	Some	failures
may	require	a	rollback	(fail	backward);	others	may	be	fail	forward.	For	the	order
processing,	for	example,	once	we’ve	taken	money	from	the	customer,	and	the
item	has	been	packaged,	the	only	step	left	is	to	dispatch	the	package.	If	for
whatever	reason	we	can’t	dispatch	the	package	(perhaps	the	delivery	firm	we	use
doesn’t	have	space	in	its	vans	to	take	an	order	today),	it	seems	very	odd	to	roll
the	whole	order	back.	Instead,	we’d	probably	just	retry	the	dispatch	(perhaps
queuing	it	for	the	following	day),	and	if	that	fails,	we’d	require	human
intervention	to	resolve	the	situation.
Implementing	Sagas
So
	far	we’ve	looked	at	the	logical	model	for	how	sagas	work,	but	we	need	to	go
a	bit	deeper	to	examine	ways	of	implementing	the	saga	itself.	We	can	look	at	two
styles	of	saga	implementation.	
Orchestrated	sagas
	more
	closely	follow	the
original	solution	space	and	rely	primarily	on	centralized	coordination	and
tracking.	These	can	be	compared	to	
choreographed	sagas
,	which	avoid	the	need
for	centralized	coordination	in	favor	of	a	more	loosely	coupled	model	but	can
make	tracking	the	progress	of	a	saga	more	complicated.
Orchestrated	sagas
Orchestrated	sagas	use	a	central	coordinator	(what	we’ll	call	an	
orchestrator
from	now	on)	to	define	the	order	of	execution	and	to	trigger	any	required
compensating	action.	You	can	think	of	orchestrated	sagas	as	a	command-and-
control	approach:	the	orchestrator	controls	what	happens	and	when,	and	with
that	comes	a	good	degree	of	visibility	into	what	is	happening	with	any	given
saga.
--- PAGE 241 ---
Taking	the	order	fulfillment	process	in	
Figure	6-5
,	let’s	see	how	this	central
coordination	process	would	work	as	a	set	of	collaborating	services,	as	shown	in
Figure	6-9
.
Figure	6-9.	
An	example	of	how	an	orchestrated	saga	may	be	used	to	implement	our	order	fulfillment
process
Here,	our	central	
Order Processor
,	playing	the	role	of	the	orchestrator,
coordinates	our	fulfillment	process.	It	knows	what	services	are	needed	to	carry
out	the	operation,	and	it	decides	when	to	make	calls	to	those	services.	If	the	calls
fail,	it	can	decide	what	to	do	as	a	result.	In	general,	orchestrated	sagas	tend	to
make	heavy	use	of	request-response	interactions	between	services:	the	
Order
Processor
	sends	a	request	to	services	(such	as	a	
Payment Gateway
)	and	expects
a	response	to	let	it	know	if	the	request	was	successful	and	provide	the	results	of
the	request.
Having	our	business	process	explicitly	modeled	inside	the	
Order Processor
	is
extremely	beneficial.	It	allows	us	to	look	at	one	place	in	our	system	and
understand	how	this	process	is	supposed	to	work.	That	can	make	the	onboarding
--- PAGE 242 ---
of	new	people	easier	and	help	impart	a	better	understanding	of	the	core	parts	of
the	system.
There	are	a	few	downsides	to	consider,	though.	First,	by	its	nature,	this	is	a
somewhat	coupled	approach.	Our	
Order Processor
	needs	to	know	about	all	the
associated	services,	resulting	in	a	higher	degree	of	
domain	coupling.	While
domain	coupling	is	not	inherently	bad,	we’d	still	like	to	keep	it	to	a	minimum,	if
possible.	Here,	our	
Order Processor
	needs	to	know	about	and	control	so	many
things	that	this	form	of	coupling	is	hard	to	avoid.
The	other	issue,	which	is	more	subtle,	is	that	logic	that	should	otherwise	be
pushed	into	the	services	can	start	to	become	absorbed	in	the	orchestrator	instead.
If	this	begins	to	happen,	you	may	find	that	your	services	become	anemic,	with
little	behavior	of	their	own,	just	taking	orders	from	orchestrators	like	the	
Order
Processor
.	It’s	important	you	still	consider	the	services	that	make	up	these
orchestrated	flows	as	entities	that	have	their	own	local	state	and	behavior.	They
are	in	charge	of	their	own	local	state	machines.
WARNING
If	logic	has	a	place	where	it	can	be	centralized,	it	will	become	
centralized!
One	way	to	avoid	too	much	centralization	with	orchestrated	flows	is	to	ensure
you	have	different	services	playing	the	role	of	the	orchestrator	for	different
flows.	You	might	have	an	
Order Processor
	microservice	that	handles	placing
an	order,	a	
Returns
	microservice	to	handle	the	return	and	refund	process,	a
Goods Receiving
	microservice	that	handles	new	stock	arriving	and	being	put
on	the	shelves,	and	so	on.	Something	like	our	
Warehouse
	microservice	may	be
used	by	all	those	orchestrators;	such	a	model	makes	it	easier	for	you	to	keep
functionality	in	the	
Warehouse
	microservice	itself,	allowing	you	to	reuse
functionality	across	all	those	flows.
BPM	TOOLS
Business	process	modeling	(BPM)	tools
	have	been	available	for	many	years.
--- PAGE 243 ---
By	and	large,	they	are	designed	to	allow	nondevelopers	to	define	business
process	flows,	often	using	visual	drag-and-drop	tools.	The	idea	is	that
developers	would	create	the	building	blocks	of	these	processes,	and	then
nondevelopers	would	wire	these	building	blocks	together	into	the	larger
process	flows.	The	use	of	such	tools	seems	to	line	up	really	nicely	as	a	way
of	implementing	orchestrated	sagas,	and	indeed,	process	orchestration	is
pretty	much	the	main	use	case	for	BPM	tools	(or,	in	reverse,	the	use	of	BPM
tools	results	in	you	having	to	adopt	orchestration).
In	my	experience,	I’ve	come	to	greatly	dislike	BPM	tools.	The	main	reason
is	that	the	central	conceit—that	nondevelopers	will	define	the	business
process—has	in	my	experience	almost	never	been	true.	The	tooling	aimed	at
nondevelopers	ends	up	getting	used	by	developers,	and	unfortunately	these
tools	often	work	in	ways	that	are	alien	to	how	developers	like	to	work.	They
often	require	the	use	of	GUIs	to	change	the	flows,	the	flows	they	create	may
be	difficult	(or	impossible)	to	version	control,	the	flows	themselves	may	not
be	designed	with	testing	in	mind,	and	more.
If	your	developers	are	going	to	be	implementing	your	business	processes,	let
them	use	tooling	that	they	know	and	understand	and	that	is	fit	for	their
workflows.	In	general,	this	means	just	letting	them	use	code	to	implement
these	things!	If	you	need	visibility	into	how	a	business	process	has	been
implemented	or	how	it	is	operating,	then	it	is	far	easier	to	project	a	visual
representation	of	a	workflow	from	code	than	it	is	to	use	a	visual
representation	of	your	workflow	to	describe	how	your	code	should	work.
There	are	efforts	to	create	more	developer-friendly	BPM	tools.	Feedback	on
these	tools	from	developers	seems	to	be	mixed,	but	the	tools	have	worked
well	for	some,	and	it’s	good	to	see	people	trying	to	improve	on	these
frameworks.	If	you	feel	the	need	to	explore	these	tools	further,	do	take	a	look
at	
Camunda
	and	
Zeebe
,	both	of	which	are	open	source	orchestration
frameworks	targeting	microservice	developers,	and	which	would	be	at	the
top	of	my	list	if	I	decided	that	a	BPM	tool	was	for	me.
Choreographed	sagas
A
	choreographed	saga	aims	to	distribute	responsibility	for	the	operation	of	the
saga	among	multiple	collaborating	services.	If	orchestration	is	a	command-and-
--- PAGE 244 ---
control	approach,	choreographed	sagas	represent	a	trust-but-verify	architecture.
As	we’ll	see	in	our	example	in	
Figure	6-10
,	choreographed	sagas	will	often
make	heavy	use	of	events	for	collaboration	between	services.
Figure	6-10.	
An	example	of	a	choreographed	saga	for	implementing	order	fulfillment
There’s	quite	a	bit	going	on	here,	so	it’s	worth	exploring	in	more	detail.	First,
these	microservices	are	reacting	to	events	being	received.	Conceptually,	events
are	broadcast	in	the	system,	and	interested	parties	are	able	to	receive	them.
Remember,	as	we	discussed	in	
Chapter	4
,	you	don’t	send	events	
to
	a
microservice;	you	just	fire	them	out,	and	the	microservices	that	are	interested	in
these	events	are	able	to	receive	them	and	act	accordingly.	In	our	example,	when
the	
Warehouse
	service	receives	that	first	
Order Placed
	event,	it	knows	its	job	is
to	reserve	the	appropriate	stock	and	fire	an	event	once	that	is	done.	If	the	stock
couldn’t	be	received,	the	
Warehouse
	would	need	to	raise	an	appropriate	event
(an	
Insufficient Stock
	event,	perhaps),	which	might	lead	to	the	order	being
aborted.
We	also	see	in	this	example	how	events	can	facilitate	parallel	processing.	When
the	
Payment Taken
	event	is	fired	by	the	
Payment Gateway
,	it	causes	reactions
--- PAGE 245 ---
in	both	the	
Loyalty
	and	
Warehouse
	microservices.	The	
Warehouse
	reacts	by
dispatching	the	package,	while	the	
Loyalty
	microservice	reacts	by	awarding
points.
Typically,	you’d	use	some	sort	of	message	broker	to	manage	the	reliable
broadcast	and	delivery	of	events.	It’s	possible	that	multiple	microservices	may
react	to	the	same	event,	and	that	is	where	you	would	use	a	topic.	Parties
interested	in	a	certain	type	of	event	would	subscribe	to	a	specific	topic	without
having	to	worry	about	where	these	events	came	from,	and	the	broker	ensures	the
durability	of	the	topic	and	that	the	events	on	it	are	successfully	delivered	to
subscribers.	As	an	example,	we	might	have	a	
Recommendation
	service	that	also
listens	to	
Order Placed
	events	and	uses	that	to	construct	a	database	of	music
choices	you	might	like.
In	the	preceding	architecture,	no	one	service	knows	about	any	other
microservice.	They	need	to	know	only	what	to	do	when	a	certain	event	is
received—we’ve	drastically	reduced	the	amount	of	domain	coupling.	Inherently,
this	makes	for	a	much	less	coupled	architecture.	As	the	implementation	of	the
process	is	decomposed	and	distributed	among	the	three	microservices	here,	we
also	avoid	the	concerns	about	centralization	of	logic	(if	you	don’t	have	a	place
where	logic	can	be	centralized,	then	it	won’t	be	centralized!).
The	flip	side	of	this	is	that	it	can	be	harder	to	work	out	what	is	going	on.	With
orchestration,	our	process	was	explicitly	modeled	in	our	orchestrator.	Now,	with
this	architecture	as	it	is	presented,	how	would	you	build	up	a	mental	model	of
what	the	process	is	supposed	to	be?	You’d	have	to	look	at	the	behavior	of	each
service	in	isolation	and	reconstitute	this	picture	in	your	own	head—far	from
straightforward,	even	with	a	simple	business	process	like	this	one.
The	lack	of	an	explicit	representation	of	our	business	process	is	bad	enough,	but
we	also	lack	a	way	of	knowing	what	state	a	saga	is	in,	which	can	deny	us	the
chance	to	attach	compensating	actions	when	required.	We	can	push	some
responsibility	to	the	individual	services	for	carrying	out	compensating	actions,
but	fundamentally	we	need	a	way	of	knowing	what	state	a	saga	is	in	for	some
kinds	of	recovery.	The	lack	of	a	central	place	to	interrogate	around	the	status	of	a
saga	is	a	big	problem.	We	get	that	with	orchestration,	so	how	do	we	solve	that
here?
--- PAGE 246 ---
One	of	the	easiest	ways	of	doing	this	is	to	project	a	view	regarding	the	state	of	a
saga	by	consuming	the	events	being	emitted.	If	we	generate	a	unique	ID	for	the
saga,	what	is	known	as	a	
correlation	ID
,	we	can	put	it	into	all	of	the	events	that
are	emitted	as	part	of	this	saga.	When	one	of	our	services	reacts	to	an	event,	the
correlation	ID	is	extracted	and	used	for	any	local	logging	processes,	and	it’s	also
passed	downstream	with	any	further	calls	or	events	that	are	fired.	We	could	then
have	a	service	whose	job	it	is	to	just	vacuum	up	all	these	events	and	present	a
view	of	what	state	each	order	is	in,	and	perhaps	programmatically	carry	out
actions	to	resolve	issues	as	part	of	the	fulfillment	process	if	the	other	services
couldn’t	do	it	themselves.	I	consider	some	form	of	correlation	ID	essential	for
choreographed	sagas	like	this,	but	correlation	IDs	also	have	a	lot	of	value	more
generally,	something	we	explore	in	more	depth	in	
Chapter	10
.
Mixing	styles
While
	it	may	seem	that	orchestrated	and	choreographed	sagas	are	diametrically
opposing	views	of	how	sagas	could	be	implemented,	you	could	easily	consider
mixing	and	matching	models.	You	may	have	some	business	processes	in	your
system	that	more	naturally	fit	one	model	or	another.	You	may	also	have	a	single
saga	that	has	a	mix	of	styles.	In	the	order	fulfillment	use	case,	for	example,
inside	the	boundary	of	the	
Warehouse
	service,	when	managing	the	packaging
and	dispatch	of	an	order,	we	may	use	an	orchestrated	flow	even	if	the	original
request	was	made	as	part	of	a	larger	choreographed	saga.
If	you	do	decide	to	mix	styles,	it’s	important	that	you	still	have	a	clear	way	to
understand	what	state	a	saga	is	in,	and	what	activities	have	already	happened	as
part	of	a	saga.	Without	this,	understanding	failure	modes	becomes	complex,	and
recovery	from	failure	is	difficult.
TRACING	CALLS
Whether	you	chose	choreography	or	orchestration,	when	implementing	a
business	process	using	multiple	microservices,	it’s	common	to	want	to	be
able	to	trace	all	the	calls	related	to	the	process.	This	can	sometimes	be	just	to
help	you	understand	if	the	business	process	is	working	correctly,	or	it	could
be	to	help	you	diagnose	a	problem.	In	
Chapter	10
	we’ll	look	at	concepts	such
as	correlation	IDs	and	log	aggregation	and	how	they	can	help	in	this	regard.
6
--- PAGE 247 ---
Should	I	use	choreography	or	orchestration	(or	a	mix)?
The	implementation	of	choreographed	sagas	can	bring	with	it	ideas	that	may	be
unfamiliar	to	you	and	your	team.	They	typically	assume	heavy	use	of	event-
driven	collaboration,	which	isn’t	widely	understood.	However,	in	my	experience,
the	extra	complexity	associated	with	tracking	the	progress	of	a	saga	is	almost
always	outweighed	by	the	benefits	associated	with	having	a	more	loosely
coupled	architecture.
Stepping	aside	from	my	own	personal	tastes,	though,	the	general	advice	I	give
regarding	orchestration	versus	choreography	is	that	I	am	very	relaxed	in	the	use
of	orchestrated	sagas	when	one	team	owns	implementation	of	the	entire	saga.	In
such	a	situation,	the	more	inherently	coupled	architecture	is	much	easier	to
manage	within	the	team	boundary.	If	you	have	multiple	teams	involved,	I	greatly
prefer	the	more	decomposed	choreographed	saga,	as	it	is	easier	to	distribute
responsibility	for	implementing	the	saga	to	the	teams,	with	the	more	loosely
coupled	architecture	allowing	these	teams	to	work	more	in	isolation.
It’s	worth	noting	that	as	a	general	rule,	you’ll	be	more	likely	to	gravitate	toward
request-response–based	calls	with	orchestration,	whereas	choreography	tends	to
make	heavier	use	of	events.	This	isn’t	a	hard	rule,	just	a	general	observation.	My
own	general	leaning	toward	choreography	is	likely	a	function	of	the	fact	that	I
tend	to	gravitate	toward	event-driven	interaction	models—if	you	are	finding	the
use	of	event-driven	collaboration	difficult	to	get	your	head	around,	choreography
might	not	be	for	you.
Sagas	Versus	Distributed	Transactions
As
	I	hope	I	have	broken	down	by	now,	distributed	transactions	come	with	some
significant	challenges,	and	outside	of	some	very	specific	situations	I	tend	to
avoid	them.	Pat	Helland,	a	pioneer	in	distributed	systems,	distills	the
fundamental	challenges	that	come	with	implementing	distributed	transactions	for
the	kinds	of	applications	we	build	today:
In	most	distributed	transaction	systems,	the	failure	of	a	single	node	causes
transaction	commit	to	stall.	This	in	turn	causes	the	application	to	get	wedged.
In	such	systems,	the	larger	it	gets,	the	more	likely	the	system	is	going	to	be
7
--- PAGE 248 ---
down.	When	flying	an	airplane	that	needs	all	of	its	engines	to	work,	adding	an
engine	reduces	the	availability	of	the	airplane.
In	my	experience,	explicitly	modeling	business	processes	as	a	saga	avoids	many
of	the	challenges	of	distributed	transactions,	while	having	the	added	benefit	of
making	what	might	otherwise	be	implicitly	modeled	processes	much	more
explicit	and	obvious	to	your	developers.	Making	the	core	business	processes	of
your	system	a	first-class	concept	will	have	a	host	of	advantages.
Summary
So	as	we	can	see,	the	path	to	implementing	workflows	in	our	microservice
architecture	comes	down	to	explicitly	modeling	the	business	process	we	are
trying	to	implement.	This	brings	us	back	to	the	idea	of	modeling	aspects	of	our
business	domain	in	our	microservice	architecture—explicitly	modeling	business
processes	makes	sense	if	our	microservice	boundaries	are	also	defined	primarily
in	terms	of	our	business	domain.
Whether	you	decide	to	gravitate	more	toward	orchestration	or	toward
choreography,	hopefully	you’re	much	better	placed	to	know	what	model	will	fit
your	problem	space	better.
If	you	want	to	explore	this	space	in	more	detail,	although	sagas	aren’t	
explicitly
covered,	
Enterprise	Integration	Patterns
	by	Gregor	Hohpe	and	Bobby	Woolf	has
a	number	of	patterns	that	can	be	incredibly	useful	when	implementing	different
types	of	workflow.
	I	can	also	heartily	recommend	
Practical	Process
Automation
	by	Bernd	Ruecker.
	Bernd’s	book	focuses	much	more	on	the
orchestration	side	of	sagas,	but	it	is	packed	with	useful	information	that	makes	it
a	natural	following-on	point	for	this	topic.
Now	we	have	a	sense	of	how	our	microservices	can	communicate	and	coordinate
with	each	other,	but	how	do	we	build	them	in	the	first	place?	In	our	next	chapter,
we’ll	look	at	how	to	apply	source	control,	continuous	integration,	and
continuous	delivery	in	the	context	of	a	microservice	architecture.
1
	This	has	changed,	with	support	for	multidocument	ACID	transactions	being	released	as	part	of
Mongo	4.0.	I	haven’t	used	this	feature	of	Mongo	myself;	I	just	know	it	exists!
8
9
--- PAGE 249 ---
2
	Martin	Kleppmann,	
Designing	Data-Intensive	Applications
	(Sebastopol:	O’Reilly,	2017).
3
	Robert	Kubis,	“Google	Cloud	Spanner:	Global	Consistency	at	Scale,”	Devoxx,	November	7,	2017,
YouTube	video,	33:22,	
https://oreil.ly/XHvY5
.
4
	Hector	Garcia-Molina	and	Kenneth	Salem,	“Sagas,”	
ACM	Sigmod	Record
	16,	no.	3	(1987):	249–59.
5
	We	really	can’t.	I’ve	tried!
6
	It’s	outside	the	scope	of	this	book,	but	Hector	Garcia-Molina	and	Kenneth	Salem	went	on	to	explore
how	multiple	sagas	could	be	“nested”	to	implement	more	complex	processes.	To	read	more	on	this
topic,	see	Hector	Garcia-Molina	et	al.,	“Modeling	Long-Running	Activities	as	Nested	Sagas,”	
Data
Engineering
	14,	no.	1	(March	1991:	14–18).
7
	See	Pat	Helland,	“Life	Beyond	Distributed	Transactions:	An	Apostate’s	Opinion,”	
acmqueue
	14,	no.
5	(December	12,	2016).
8
	Gregor	Hohpe	and	Bobby	Woolf,	
Enterprise	Integration	Patterns
	(Boston:	Addison-Wesley,	2003).
9
	Bernd	Ruecker,	
Practical	Process	Automation
	(Sebastopol:	O’Reilly,	2021).
--- PAGE 250 ---
Chapter	7.	
Build
We’ve	spent	a	lot	of	time	covering	the	design	aspects	of	microservices,	but	we
need	to	start	getting	a	bit	deeper	into	how	your	development	process	may	need	to
change	to	accommodate	this	new	style	of	architecture.	In	the	following	chapters,
we’ll	look	at	how	we	deploy	and	test	our	microservices,	but	before	that	we	need
to	look	at	what	comes	first—what	happens	when	a	developer	has	a	change	ready
to	check	in?
We’ll	start	this	exploration	by	reviewing	
some	foundational	concepts—
continuous	integration	and	continuous	delivery.	They’re	important	concepts	no
matter	what	kind	of	systems	architecture	you	might	be	using,	but	microservices
open	up	a	host	of	unique	questions.	From	there	we’ll	look	at	pipelines	and	at
different	ways	of	managing	source	code	for	your	services.
A	Brief	Introduction	to	Continuous	Integration
Continuous	integration
	(CI)	has
	been	around	for	a	number	of	years.	However,
it’s	worth	spending	a	bit	of	time	going	over	the	basics,	as	there	are	some
different	options	to	consider,	especially	when	we	think	about	the	mapping
between	microservices,	builds,	and	version	control	repositories.
With	CI,	the	core	goal	is	to	keep	everyone	in	sync	with	each	other,	which	we
achieve	by	frequently	making	sure	that	newly	checked-in	code	properly
integrates	with	existing	code.	To	do	this,	a	CI	server	detects	that	the	code	has
been	committed,	checks	it	out,	and	carries	out	some	verification	such	as	making
sure	that	the	code	compiles	and	that	tests	pass.	As	a	bare	minimum,	we	expect
this	integration	to	be	done	on	a	daily	basis,	although	in	practice	I’ve	worked	in
multiple	teams	in	which	a	developer	has	in	fact	integrated	their	changes	multiple
times	per	day.
As	part	of	this	process,	we	often	create	artifacts	that	are	used	for	further
validation,	such	as	deploying	a	running	service	to	run	tests	against	it	(we’ll
explore	testing	in	depth	in	
Chapter	9
).	Ideally,	we	want	to	build	these	artifacts
once	and	once	only	and	use	them	for	all	deployments	of	that	version	of	the	code.

================================================================================
Ch7 Build (PDF pages 251-280)
================================================================================

--- PAGE 251 ---
This	is	so	we	can	avoid	doing	the	same	thing	over	and	over	again,	and	so	we	can
confirm	that	the	artifacts	we	deploy	are	the	ones	we	tested.	To	enable	these
artifacts	to	be	reused,	we	place	them	in	a	repository	of	some	sort,	either	provided
by	the	CI	tool	itself	or	in	a	separate	system.
We’ll	be	looking	at	the	role	of	artifacts	in	more	depth	shortly,	and	we’ll	look	in
depth	at	testing	in	
Chapter	9
.
CI	has	a	number	of	benefits.	We	get	fast	feedback	as	to	the	quality	of	our	code,
through	the	use	of	static	analysis	and	testing.	CI	also	allows	us	to	automate	the
creation	of	our	binary	artifacts.	All	the	code	required	to	build	the	artifact	is	itself
version	controlled,	so	we	can	re-create	the	artifact	if	needed.	We	can	also	trace
from	a	deployed	artifact	back	to	the	code,	and,	depending	on	the	capabilities	of
the	CI	tool	itself,	we	can	see	what	tests	were	run	on	the	code	and	artifact	too.	If
embracing	infrastructure	as	code,	we	can	also	version	control	all	the	code	needed
to	configure	the	infrastructure	for	our	microservice	alongside	the	code	for	the
microservice	itself,	improving	transparency	around	changes	and	making	it	even
easier	to	reproduce	builds.	It’s	for	these	reasons	that	CI	has	been	so	successful.
Are	You	Really	Doing	CI?
CI	is	a	key	practice	that	allows	us	to	make	changes	quickly	and	easily,	and
without	which	the	journey	into	microservices	will	be	painful.	I	suspect	you	are
probably	using	a	CI	tool	in	your	own	organization,	but	that	might	not	be	the
same	thing	as	actually	doing	CI.	
I’ve	seen	many	people	confuse	adopting	a	CI
tool	with	actually	embracing	CI.	A	CI	tool,	used	well,	will	help	you	do	CI—but
using	a	tool	like	Jenkins,	CircleCI,	Travis,	or	one	of	the	many	other	options	out
there	doesn’t	guarantee	you’re	actually	doing	CI	right.
So	how	do	you	know	if	you’re	actually	practicing	CI?	I	really	like	Jez	Humble’s
three	questions	he	asks	people	to	test	if	they	really	understand	what	CI	is	about
—it	might	be	interesting	to	ask	yourself	these	same	questions:
Do	you	check	in	to	mainline	once	per	day?
You	need	to	make	sure	your	code	integrates.	If	you	don’t	check	your	code
together	with	everyone	else’s	changes	frequently,	you	end	up	making	future
integration	harder.	Even	if	you	are	using	short-lived	branches	to	manage
changes,	integrate	as	frequently	as	you	can	into	a	single	mainline	branch—at
--- PAGE 252 ---
least	once	a	day.
Do	you	have	a	suite	of	tests	to	validate	your	changes?
Without	tests,	we	just	know	that	syntactically	our	integration	has	worked,	but
we	don’t	know	if	we	have	broken	the	behavior	of	the	system.	CI	without
some	verification	that	our	code	behaves	as	expected	isn’t	CI.
When	the	build	is	broken,	is	it	the	#1	priority	of	the	team	to	fix	it?
A	passing	green	build	means	our	changes	have	safely	been	integrated.	A	red
build	means	the	last	change	possibly	did	not	integrate.	You	need	to	stop	all
further	check-ins	that	aren’t	involved	in	fixing	the	builds	to	get	it	passing
again.	If	you	let	more	changes	pile	up,	the	time	it	takes	to	fix	the	build	will
increase	drastically.	I’ve	worked	with	teams	where	the	build	has	been	broken
for	days,	resulting	in	substantial	efforts	to	eventually	get	a	passing	build.
Branching	Models
Few
	topics	around	build	and	deployment	seem	to	cause	as	much	of	a	controversy
as	that	of	using	source	code	branching	for	feature	development.	Branching	in
source	code	allows	for	development	to	be	done	in	isolation	without	disrupting
the	work	being	done	by	others.	On	the	surface,	creating	a	source	code	branch	for
each	feature	being	worked	on—otherwise	known	as	feature	branching—seems
like	a	useful	
concept.
The	problem	is	that	when	you	work	on	a	feature	branch,	you	aren’t	regularly
integrating	your	changes	with	everyone	else.	Fundamentally,	you	are	
delaying
integration.	And	when	you	finally	decide	to	integrate	your	changes	with
everyone	else,	you’ll	have	a	much	more	complex	merge.
The
	alternative	approach	is	to	have	everyone	check	in	to	the	same	“trunk”	of
source	code.	To	keep	changes	from	impacting	other	people,	techniques	like
feature	flags	are	used	to	“hide”	incomplete	work.	This	technique	of	everyone
working	off	the	same	trunk	is	called	
trunk-based	development
.
The	discussion	around	this	topic	is	nuanced,	but	my	own	take	is	that	the	benefits
of	frequent	integration—and	validation	of	that	integration—are	significant
enough	that	trunk-based	development	is	my	preferred	style	of	development.
--- PAGE 253 ---
Moreover,	the	work	to	implement	feature	flags	is	frequently	beneficial	in	terms
of	progressive	delivery,	a	concept	we’ll	explore	in	
Chapter	8
.
BE	CAREFUL	ABOUT	BRANCHES
Integrate	early,	and	integrate	often.	Avoid	the	use	of	long-lived	branches	for	feature
development,	and	consider	trunk-based	development	instead.	If	you	really	have	to	use
branches,	keep	them	short!
Quite	aside	from	my	own	anecdotal	experience,	there	is	a	growing	body	of
research	that	shows	the	efficacy	of	reducing	the	number	of	branches	and
adopting	trunk-based	development.	The	2016	State	of	DevOps	report	by	DORA
and	Puppet
	carries	out	rigorous	research	into	the	delivery	practices	of
organizations	around	the	world	and	studies	which	practices	are	commonly	used
by	high-performing	teams:
We	found	that	having	branches	or	forks	with	very	short	lifetimes	(less	than	a
day)	before	being	merged	into	trunk,	and	less	than	three	active	branches	in
total,	are	important	aspects	of	continuous	delivery,	and	all	contribute	to
higher	performance.	So	does	merging	code	into	trunk	or	master	on	a	daily
basis.
The	State	of	DevOps	report	has	continued	to	explore	this	topic	in	more	depth	in
subsequent	years,	and	has	continued	to	find	evidence	for	the	efficacy	of	this
approach.
A
	branch-heavy	approach	is	still	common	in	open	source	development,	often
through	adopting	the	“GitFlow”	development	model.	It’s	worth	noting	that	open
source	development	is	not	the	same	as	normal	day-to-day	development.	Open
source	development	is	characterized	by	a	large	number	of	ad	hoc	contributions
from	time-poor	“untrusted”	committers,	whose	changes	require	vetting	by	a
smaller	number	of	“trusted”	contributors.	Typical	day-to-day	closed	source
development	is	normally	done	by	a	tight-knit	team	whose	members	all	have
commit	rights,	even	if	they	decide	to	adopt	some	form	of	code	review	process.
So	what	might	work	for	open	source	development	may	not	work	for	your	day
job.	Even	then,	the	State	of	DevOps	report	for	2019,
	further	exploring	this
topic,	found	some	interesting	insights	into	open	source	development	and	the
1
2
--- PAGE 254 ---
impact	of	“long	lived”	
branches:
Our	research	findings	extend	to	open	source	development	in	some	areas:
Committing	code	sooner	is	better:	In	open	source	projects,	many
have	observed	that	merging	patches	faster	to	prevent	rebases	helps
developers	move	faster.
Working	in	small	batches	is	better:	Large	“patch	bombs”	are	harder
and	slower	to	merge	into	a	project	than	smaller,	more	readable
patchsets	since	maintainers	need	more	time	to	review	the	changes.
Whether	you	are	working	on	a	closed-source	code	base	or	an	open	source
project,	short-lived	branches;	small,	readable	patches;	and	automatic	testing
of	changes	make	everyone	more	productive.
Build	Pipelines	and	Continuous	Delivery
Very
	early	on	in	doing	CI,	my	then-colleagues	at	Thoughtworks	and	I	realized
the	value	in	sometimes	having	multiple	stages	inside	a	build.	Tests	are	a	very
common	case	in	which	this	comes	into	play.	I	may	have	a	lot	of	fast,	small-
scoped	tests,	and	a	small	number	of	slow,	large-scoped	tests.	If	we	run	all	the
tests	together,	and	if	we’re	
waiting	for	our	large-scoped	slow	tests	to	finish,	we
may	not	be	able	to	get	fast	feedback	when	our	fast	tests	fail.	And	if	the	fast	tests
fail,	there	probably	isn’t	much	sense	in	running	the	slower	tests	anyway!	A
solution	to	this	problem	is	to	have	different	stages	in	our	build,	creating	what	is
known	as	a	
build	pipeline
.	So	we	can	have	a	dedicated	stage	for	all	the	fast	tests,
which	we	run	first,	and	if	they	all	pass,	we	then	run	a	separate	stage	for	the
slower	tests.
This	build	pipeline	concept	gives	us	a	nice	way	of	tracking	the	progress	of	our
software	as	it	clears	each	stage,	helping	give	us	insight	into	the	quality	of	our
software.	We	create	a	deployable	artifact,	the	thing	that	will	ultimately	be
deployed	into	production,	and	use	this	artifact	throughout	the	pipeline.	In	our
context,	this	artifact	will	relate	to	a	microservice	we	want	to	deploy.	In	
Figure	7-
1
,	we	see	this	happening—the	same	artifact	is	used	in	each	stage	of	the	pipeline,
giving	us	more	and	more	confidence	that	the	software	will	work	in	production.
--- PAGE 255 ---
Figure	7-1.	
A	simple	release	process	for	our	
Catalog
	service	modeled	as	a	build	pipeline
Continuous	delivery
	(CD)	builds
	on	this	concept,	and	then	some.	As	outlined	in
Jez	Humble	and	Dave	Farley’s	book	of	the	same	name,
	CD	is	the	approach
whereby	we	get	constant	feedback	on	the	production	readiness	of	each	and	every
check-in,	and	furthermore	treat	each	and	every	check-in	as	a	release	candidate.
To	fully	embrace	this	concept,	we	need	to	model	all	the	processes	involved	in
getting	our	software	from	check-in	to	production,	and	we	need	to	know	where
any	given	version	of	the	software	is	in	terms	of	being	cleared	for	release.	In	CD,
we	do	this	by	modeling	each	and	every	stage	our	software	has	to	go	through,
both	manual	and	automated,	an	example	of	which	I	shared	for	our	
Catalog
service	in	
Figure	7-1
.	Most	CI	tools	nowadays	provide	some	support	for	defining
and	visualizing	the	state	of	build	pipelines	like	this.
If	the	new	
Catalog
	service	passes	whatever	checks	are	carried	out	at	a	stage	in
the	pipeline,	it	can	then	move	on	to	the	next	step.	If	it	doesn’t	pass	a	stage,	our
CI	tool	can	let	us	know	which	stages	the	build	has	passed	and	can	get	visibility
about	what	failed.	If	we	need	to	do	something	to	fix	it,	we’d	make	a	change	and
check	it	in,	allowing	the	new	version	of	our	microservice	to	try	and	pass	all	the
stages	before	being	available	for	deployment.	In	
Figure	7-2
,	we	see	an	example
of	this:	
build-120
	failed	the	fast	test	stage,	
build-121
	failed	at	the	performance
tests,	but	
build-122
	made	it	all	the	way	to	production.
3
--- PAGE 256 ---
Figure	7-2.	
Our	
Catalog
	microservice	can	get	deployed	only	if	it	passes	each	step	in	our	pipeline
CONTINUOUS	DELIVERY	VERSUS	CONTINUOUS
DEPLOYMENT
I
	have	on	occasion	seen	some	confusion	around	the	terms	
continuous
delivery
	and	
continuous	deployment
.	As	we’ve	already	discussed,	continuous
delivery	is	the	concept	whereby	each	check-in	is	treated	as	a	release
candidate,	and	whereby	we	can	assess	the	quality	of	each	release	candidate
to	decide	if	it’s	ready	to	be	deployed.	With	continuous	deployment	on	the
other	hand,	all	check-ins	have	to	be	validated	using	automated	mechanisms
(tests	for	example),	and	any	software	that	passes	these	verification	checks	is
deployed	automatically,	without	human	intervention.	Continuous
deployment	can	therefore	be	considered	an	extention	of	continuous	delivery.
Without	continuous	delivery,	you	can’t	do	continuous	deployment.	But	you
can
	do	continuous	delivery	
without
	doing	continuous	deployment.
Continuous	deployment	isn’t	right	for	everyone—many	people	want	some
human	interaction	to	decide	whether	software	should	be	deployed,
something	that	is	totally	compatible	with	continuous	delivery.	However,
adopting	continuous	delivery	does	imply	continual	focus	on	optimizing	your
path	to	production,	the	increased	visibility	making	it	easier	to	see	where
optimizations	should	be	made.	Often	human	involvement	in	the	post-check-
in	process	is	a	bottleneck	that	needs	addressing—see	the	shift	from	manual
regression	testing	to	automated	functional	testing,	for	example.	As	a	result,
as	you	automate	more	and	more	of	your	build,	deployment,	and	release
process,	you	may	find	yourself	getting	closer	and	closer	to	continuous
deployment.
--- PAGE 257 ---
Tooling
Ideally,	you
	want	a	tool	that	embraces	continuous	delivery	as	a	first-class
concept.	I	have	seen	many	people	try	to	hack	and	extend	CI	tools	to	make	them
do	CD,	often	resulting	in	complex	systems	that	are	nowhere	near	as	easy	to	use
as	tools	that	build	in	CD	from	the	beginning.	Tools	that	fully	support	CD	allow
you	to	define	and	visualize	these	pipelines,	modeling	the	entire	path	to
production	for	your	software.	As	a	version	of	our	code	moves	through	the
pipeline,	if	it	passes	one	of	these	automated	verification	stages,	it	moves	to	the
next	stage.
Some	stages	may	be	manual.	For	example,	if	we	have	a	manual	user	acceptance
testing	(UAT)	process,	I	should	be	able	to	use	a	CD	tool	to	model	it.	I	can	see	the
next	available	build	ready	to	be	deployed	into	our	UAT	environment	and	then
deploy	it,	and	then	if	it	passes	our	manual	checks,	mark	that	stage	as	being
successful	so	it	can	move	to	the	next	one.	If	the	subsequent	stage	is	automated,	it
will	then	get	triggered	
automatically.
Trade-Offs	and	Environments
As
	we	move	our	microservice	artifact	through	this	pipeline,	our	microservice
gets	deployed	into	different	environments.	Different	environments	serve
different	purposes,	and	they	may	have	different	characteristics.
Structuring	a	pipeline,	and	therefore	working	out	what	environments	you’ll	need,
is	in	and	of	itself	a	balancing	act.	Early	on	in	the	pipeline,	we’re	looking	for	fast
feedback	on	the	production	readiness	of	our	software.	We	want	to	let	developers
know	as	soon	as	possible	if	there	is	a	problem—the	sooner	we	get	feedback
about	a	problem	occurring,	the	quicker	it	is	to	fix	it.	As	our	software	gets	closer
to	production,	we	want	more	certainty	that	the	software	will	work,	and	we’ll
therefore	be	deploying	into	increasingly	production-like	environments—we	can
see	this	trade-off	in	
Figure	7-3
.
--- PAGE 258 ---
Figure	7-3.	
Balancing	a	build	pipeline	for	fast	feedback	and	production-like	execution	environments
You	get	the	fastest	feedback	on	your	development	laptop—but	that	is	far	from
production-like.	You	could	roll	out	every	commit	to	an	environment	that	is	a
faithful	reproduction	of	your	actual	production	environment,	but	that	will	likely
take	longer	and	cost	more.	So	finding	the	balance	is	key,	and	continuing	to
review	the	trade-off	between	fast	feedback	and	the	need	for	production-like
environments	can	be	an	incredibly	important	ongoing	activity.
The	challenges	of	creating	a	production-like	environment	are	also	part	of	why
more	people	are	doing	forms	of	testing	in	production,	including	techniques	such
as	smoke	testing	and	parallel	runs.	We’ll	come	back	to	this	topic	in	
Chapter	8
.
Artifact	Creation
As
	we	move	our	microservice	into	different	environments,	we	actually	have	to
have	something	to	deploy.	It	turns	out	there	are	a	number	of	different	options	for
what	type	of	deployment	artifact	you	can	use.	In	general,	which	artifact	you
create	will	depend	greatly	on	the	technology	you	have	chosen	to	adopt	for
deployment.	We’ll	be	looking	at	that	in	depth	in	the	next	chapter,	but	I	wanted	to
give	you	some	very	important	tips	about	how	artifact	creation	should	fit	into
your	CI/CD	build	process.
To	keep	things	simple,	we’ll	sidestep	exactly	what	type	of	artifact	we	are
creating—just	consider	it	a	single	deployable	blob	for	the	moment.	Now,	there
are	two	important	rules	we	need	to	consider.	Firstly,	as	I	mentioned	earlier,	we
should	build	an	artifact	once	and	once	only.	Building	the	same	thing	over	and
over	again	is	a	waste	of	time	and	bad	for	the	planet,	and	it	can	theoretically
introduce	problems	if	the	build	configuration	isn’t	exactly	the	same	each	time.
On	some	programming	languages,	a	different	build	flag	can	make	the	software
behave	quite	differently.	Secondly,	the	artifact	you	verify	should	be	the	artifact
--- PAGE 259 ---
you	deploy!	If	you	build	a	microservice,	test	it,	say	“yes,	it’s	working,”	and	then
build	it	again	for	deployment	into	production,	how	do	you	know	that	the
software	you	validated	is	the	same	software	you	deployed?
Taking	these	two	ideas	together,	we	have	a	pretty	simple	approach.	Build	your
deployable	artifact	once	and	once	only,	and	ideally	do	it	pretty	early	in	the
pipeline.	I	would	typically	do	this	after	compiling	the	code	(if	required)	and
running	my	fast	tests.	Once	created,	this	artifact	is	stored	in	an	appropriate
repository—this	could	be	something	like	Artifactory	or	Nexus,	or	perhaps	a
container	registry.	Your	choice	of	deployment	artifact	likely	dictates	the	nature
of	the	artifact	store.	This	same	artifact	can	then	be	used	for	all	stages	in	the
pipeline	that	follow,	up	to	and	including	deployment	into	production.	So	coming
back	to	our	earlier	pipeline,	we	can	see	in	
Figure	7-4
	that	we	create	an	artifact
for	our	
Catalog
	service	during	the	first	stage	of	the	pipeline	and	then	deploy	the
same	
build-123
	artifact	as	part	of	the	slow	tests,	performance	tests,	and
production	stages.
Figure	7-4.	
The	same	artifact	is	deployed	into	each	environment
If	the	same	artifact	is	going	to	be	used	across	multiple	environments,	any	aspects
of	configuration	that	vary	from	environment	to	environment	need	to	be	kept
outside	the	artifact	itself.	As	a	simple	example,	I	might	want	to	configure
application	logs	so	that	everything	at	
DEBUG
	level	and	above	is	logged	when
running	the	Slow	Tests	stage,	giving	me	more	information	to	diagnose	why	a	test
fails.	I	might	decide,	though,	to	change	this	to	
INFO
	to	reduce	the	log	volume	for
the	Performance	Tests	and	Production	deployment.
--- PAGE 260 ---
ARTIFACT	CREATION	TIPS
Build	a	deployment	artifact	for	your	microservice	once.	Reuse	this	artifact	everywhere	you
want	to	deploy	that	version	of	your	microservice.	Keep	your	deployment	artifact	environment-
agnostic—store	environment-specific	configuration	elsewhere.
Mapping	Source	Code	and	Builds	to
Microservices
We’ve
	already	looked	at	one	topic	that	can	excite	warring	factions—feature
branching	versus	trunk-based	development—but	it	turns	out	that	the	controversy
isn’t	over	for	this	chapter.	Another	topic	that	is	likely	to	elicit	some	pretty
diverse	opinions	is	the	organization	of	code	for	our	microservices.	I	have	my
own	preferences,	but	before	we	get	to	those,	let’s	explore	the	main	options	for
how	we	organize	code	for	our	microservices.
One	Giant	Repo,	One	Giant	Build
If
	we	start	with	the	simplest	option,	we	could	lump	everything	in	together.	We
have	a	single,	giant	repository	storing	all	our	code,	and	we	have	a	single	build,	as
we	see	in	
Figure	7-5
.	Any	check-in	to	this	source	code	repository	will	cause	our
build	to	trigger,	where	we	will	run	all	the	verification	steps	associated	with	all
our	microservices	and	produce	multiple	artifacts,	all	tied	back	to	the	same	build.
--- PAGE 261 ---
Figure	7-5.	
Using	a	single	source	code	repository	and	CI	build	for	all	microservices
Compared	to	other	approaches,	this	seems	much	simpler	on	the	surface:	fewer
repositories	to	be	concerned	about,	and	a	conceptually	simpler	build.	From	a
developer	point	of	view,	things	are	pretty	straightforward	too.	I	just	check	code
in.	If	I	have	to	work	on	multiple	services	at	once,	I	just	have	to	worry	about	one
commit.
This	model	can	work	perfectly	well	if	you	buy	into	the	idea	of	lockstep	releases,
where	you	don’t	mind	deploying	multiple	services	at	once.	In	general,	this	is
absolutely	a	pattern	to	avoid,	but	very	early	on	in	a	project,	especially	if	only	one
team	is	working	on	everything,	this	model	might	make	sense	for	short	periods	of
time.
Now	let	me	explain	some	of	the	significant	downsides	to	this	approach.	If	I
make	a	one-line	change	to	a	single	service—for	example,	changing	behavior	in
the	
User
	service	in	
Figure	7-5
—
all
	the	other	services	get	verified	and	built.	This
could	take	more	time	than	needed—I’m	waiting	for	things	that	probably	don’t
need	to	be	tested.	This	impacts	our	cycle	time,	the	speed	at	which	we	can	move	a
single	change	from	development	to	live.	More	troubling,	though,	is	knowing
what	artifacts	should	or	shouldn’t	be	deployed.	Do	I	now	need	to	deploy	all	the
build	services	to	push	my	small	change	into	production?	It	can	be	hard	to	tell;
trying	to	guess	which	services	
really
	changed	just	by	reading	the	commit
messages	is	difficult.	Organizations	using	this	approach	often	fall	back	to	just
--- PAGE 262 ---
deploying	everything	together,	which	we	really	want	to	avoid.
Furthermore,	if	my	one-line	change	to	the	
User
	service	breaks	the	build,	no
other	changes	can	be	made	to	the	other	services	until	that	break	is	fixed.	And
think	about	a	scenario	in	which	you	have	multiple	teams	all	sharing	this	giant
build.	Who	is	in	charge?
Arguably,	this	approach	is	a	form	of	monorepo.	In	practice,	however,	most	of	the
monorepo	implementations	I’ve	seen	map	multiple	builds	to	different	parts	of
the	repo,	something	we’ll	explore	in	more	depth	shortly.	So	you	could	see	this
pattern	of	one	repo	mapping	to	a	single	build	as	the	
worst
	form	of	monorepo	for
those	wanting	to	build	multiple	independently	deployable	microservices.
In	practice,	I	almost	never	see	this	approach	used,	except	in	the	earliest	stages	of
projects.	To	be	honest,	either	of	the	two	following	approaches	are	significantly
preferable,	so	we’ll	focus	on	those	instead.
Pattern:	One	Repository	per	Microservice	(aka	Multirepo)
With
	the	one	repository	per	microservice	pattern	(more	commonly	referred	to	as
the	
multirepo
	pattern	when	being	compared	to	the	monorepo	pattern),	the	code
for	each	microservice	is	stored	in	its	own	source	code	repository,	as	we	see	in
Figure	7-6
.	This	approach	leads	to	a	straightforward	mapping	between	source
code	changes	and	CI	builds.
--- PAGE 263 ---
Figure	7-6.	
The	source	code	for	each	microservice	is	stored	in	a	separate	source	code	repository
Any	change	to	the	
User
	source	code	repository	triggers	the	matching	build,	and
if	that	passes,	I’ll	have	a	new	version	of	my	
User
	microservice	available	for
deployment.	Having	a	separate	repository	for	each	microservice	also	allows	you
to	change	ownership	on	a	per-repository	basis,	something	that	makes	sense	if
you	want	to	consider	a	strong	ownership	model	for	your	microservices	(more	on
that	shortly).
The	straightforward	nature	of	this	pattern	does	create	some	challenges,	however.
Specifically,	developers	may	find	themselves	working	with	multiple	repositories
at	a	time,	which	is	especially	painful	if	they	are	trying	to	make	changes	across
multiple	repositories	at	once.	Additionally,	changes	cannot	be	made	in	an	atomic
fashion	across	separate	repositories,	at	least	not	with	Git.
Reusing	code	across	repositories
When
	using	this	pattern,	there	is	nothing	to	stop	a	microservice	from	depending
on	other	code	that	is	managed	in	different	repositories.	A	simple	mechanism	for
doing	this	is	to	have	the	code	you	want	to	reuse	packaged	into	a	library	that	then
becomes	an	explicit	dependency	of	the	downstream	microservices.	We	can	see
an	example	of	that	in	
Figure	7-7
,	where	the	
Invoice
	and	
Payroll
	services	both
make	use	of	the	
Connection
	library.
--- PAGE 264 ---
Figure	7-7.	
Reusing	code	across	different	repositories
If	you	wanted	to	roll	out	a	change	to	the	
Connection
	library,	you’d	have	to
make	the	changes	in	the	matching	source	code	repository	and	wait	for	its	build	to
complete,	giving	you	a	new	versioned	artifact.	To	actually	deploy	new	versions
of	the	
Invoice
	or	
Payroll
	services	using	this	new	version	of	the	library,	you’d
need	to	change	the	version	of	the	
Connection
	library	they	use.	This	might
require	a	manual	change	(if	you	are	depending	on	a	specific	version),	or	it	could
be	configured	to	happen	dynamically,	depending	on	the	nature	of	the	CI	tooling
you	are	using.	The	concepts	behind	this	are	outlined	in	more	detail	in	the	book
Continuous	Delivery
	by	Jez	Humble	and	Dave	Farley.
The	important	thing	to	remember,	of	course,	is	that	if	you	want	to	roll	out	the
new	version	of	the	
Connection
	library,	then	you	also	need	to	deploy	the	newly
built	
Invoice
	and	
Payroll
	services.	Remember,	all	the	caveats	we	explored	in
“DRY	and	the	Perils	of	Code	Reuse	in	a	Microservice	World”
	regarding	reuse
and	microservices	still	apply—if	you	choose	to	reuse	code	via	libraries,	then	you
must	be	OK	with	the	fact	that	these	changes	cannot	be	rolled	out	in	an	atomic
fashion,	or	else	we	undermine	our	goal	of	independent	deployability.	You	also
have	to	be	aware	that	it	can	be	more	challenging	to	know	if	some	microservices
are	using	a	specific	version	of	a	library,	which	may	be	problematic	if	you’re
trying	to	deprecate	the	use	of	an	old	version	of	the	library.
4
--- PAGE 265 ---
Working	across	multiple	repositories
So,	aside	from	reusing	code	via	libraries,	how	else	can	we	make	a	change	across
more	than	one	repository?	Let’s	look	at	another	example.	
In	
Figure	7-8
,	I	want	to
change	the	API	exposed	by	the	
Inventory
	service,	and	I	also	need	to	update	the
Shipping
	service	so	it	can	make	use	of	the	new	change.	If	the	code	for	both
Inventory
	and	
Shipping
	was	in	the	same	repository,	I	could	commit	the	code
once.	Instead,	I’ll	have	to	break	the	changes	into	two	commits—one	for
Inventory
	and	another	for	
Shipping
.
Figure	7-8.	
Changes	across	repository	boundaries	require	multiple	commits
Having	these	changes	split	could	cause	problems	if	one	commit	fails	but	the
other	works—I	may	need	to	make	two	changes	to	roll	back	the	change,	for
example,	and	that	could	be	complicated	if	other	people	have	checked	in	in	the
meantime.	The	reality	is	that	in	this	specific	situation,	I’d	likely	want	to	stage	the
commits	somewhat,	in	any	case.	I’d	want	to	make	sure	the	commit	to	change	the
Inventory
	service	worked	before	I	change	any	client	code	in	the	
Shipping
service—if	the	new	functionality	in	the	API	isn’t	present,	there	is	no	point
having	client	code	that	makes	use	of	it.
I’ve	spoken	to	multiple	people	who	find	the	lack	of	atomic	deployment	with	this
to	be	a	significant	problem.	I	can	certainly	appreciate	the	complexity	this	brings,
but	I	think	that	in	most	cases	it	points	to	a	bigger	underlying	issue.	If	you	are
--- PAGE 266 ---
continually	making	changes	across	multiple	microservices,	then	your	service
boundaries	might	not	be	in	the	right	place,	and	it	could	imply	too	much	coupling
between	your	services.	As	we’ve	already	discussed,	we’re	trying	to	optimize	our
architecture,	and	our	microservice	boundaries,	so	that	changes	are	more	likely
going	to	apply	within	a	microservice	boundary.	Cross-cutting	changes	should	be
the	exception,	not	the	norm.
In	fact,	I’d	argue	that	the	pain	of	working	across	multiple	repos	can	be	useful	in
helping	enforce	microservice	boundaries,	as	it	forces	you	to	think	carefully	about
where	these	boundaries	are,	and	about	the	nature	of	the	interactions	between
them.
TIP
If	you	are	constantly	making	changes	across	multiple	microservices,	it’s	likely	that	your
microservice	boundaries	are	in	the	wrong	place.	It	may	be	worth	considering	merging
microservices	back	together	if	you	spot	this	happening.
Then	there	is	the	hassle	of	having	to	pull	from	multiple	repos	and	push	to
multiple	repos	as	part	of	your	normal	workflow.	In	my	experience,	this	can	be
simplified	either	by	using	an	IDE	that	supports	multiple	repositories	(this	is
something	that	all	IDEs	I’ve	used	over	the	last	five	years	can	handle)	or	by
writing	simple	wrapper	scripts	to	simplify	things	when	working	on	the	command
line.
Where	to	use	this	pattern
Using	the	one	repository	per	microservice	approach	works	just	as	well	for	small
teams	as	it	does	for	large	teams,	but	if	you	find	yourself	making	lots	of	changes
across	microservice	boundaries,	then	it	may	not	be	for	you,	and	the	monorepo
pattern	we	discuss	next	may	be	a	better	fit—although	making	lots	of	changes
across	service	boundaries	can	be	considered	a	warning	sign	that	something	isn’t
right,	as	we’ve	discussed	previously.	It	can	also	make	code	reuse	more	complex
than	using	a	monorepo	approach,	as	you	need	to	depend	on	code	being	packaged
into	version	artifacts.
--- PAGE 267 ---
Pattern:	Monorepo
With
	a	monorepo	approach,	code	for	multiple	microservices	(or	other	types	of
projects)	is	stored	in	the	same	source	code	repository.	I	have	seen	situations	in
which	a	monorepo	is	used	just	by	one	team	to	manage	source	control	for	all	its
services,	although	the	concept	has	been	popularized	by	some	very	large	tech
companies	where	multiple	teams	and	hundreds	if	not	thousands	of	developers
can	all	work	on	the	same	source	code	repository.
By	having	all	the	source	code	in	the	same	repository,	you	allow	for	source	code
changes	to	be	made	across	multiple	projects	in	an	atomic	fashion,	and	for	finer-
grained	reuse	of	code	from	one	project	to	the	next.	Google	is	probably	the	
best-
known
	example	of	a	company	using	a	monorepo	approach,	although	it’s	far	from
the	only	one.	Although	there	are	some	other	benefits	to	this	approach,	such	as
improved	visibility	of	other	people’s	code,	the	ability	to	reuse	code	easily	and	to
make	changes	that	impact	multiple	different	projects	is	often	cited	as	the	major
reason	for	adopting	this	pattern.
If	we	take	the	example	we	just	discussed,	where	we	want	to	make	a	change	to
the	
Inventory
	so	that	it	exposes	some	new	behavior	and	also	update	the
Shipping
	service	to	make	use	of	this	new	functionality	that	we’ve	exposed,	then
these	changes	can	be	made	in	a	single	commit,	as	we	see	in	
Figure	7-9
.
--- PAGE 268 ---
Figure	7-9.	
Using	a	single	commit	to	make	changes	across	two	microservices	using	a	monorepo
Of	course,	as	with	the	multirepo	pattern	discussed	previously,	we	still	need	to
deal	with	the	deployment	side	of	this.	We’d	likely	need	to	carefully	consider	the
order	of	deployment	if	we	want	to	avoid	a	lockstep	deployment.
ATOMIC	COMMITS	VERSUS	ATOMIC	DEPLOY
Being
	able	to	make	an	atomic	commit	across	multiple	services	doesn’t	give	you	atomic	rollout.
If	you	find	yourself	wanting	to	change	code	across	multiple	services	at	once	and	roll	it	out	into
production	all	at	the	same	time,	this	violates	the	core	principle	of	independent	deployability.
For	more	on	this,	see	
“DRY	and	the	Perils	of	Code	Reuse	in	a	Microservice	World”
.
Mapping	to	build
With	a	single	source	code	repository	per	microservice,	mapping	from	the	source
code	to	a	build	process	is	straightforward.	Any	change	in	that	source	code
repository	can	trigger	a	matching	CI	build.	With	a	monorepo,	it	gets	a	bit	more
complex.
A	simple	starting	point	is	to	map	folders	inside	the	monorepo	to	a	build,	as
--- PAGE 269 ---
shown	in	
Figure	7-10
.	A	change	made	to	the	
user-service
	folder	would	trigger
the	
User
	service	build,	for	example.	If	you	checked	in	code	that	changed	files
both	in	the	
user-service
	folder	and	the	
catalog-service
	folder,	then	both	the
User
	build	and	the	
Catalog
	build	would	get	triggered.
Figure	7-10.	
A	single	source	repo	with	subdirectories	mapped	to	independent	builds
This	gets	more	complex	as	you	have	more	involved	folder	structures.	On	larger
projects	you	can	end	up	with	multiple	different	folders	wanting	to	trigger	the
same	build,	and	with	some	folders	triggering	more	than	one	build.	At	the	simple
end	of	the	spectrum,	you	might	have	a	“common”	folder	used	by	all
microservices,	a	change	to	which	causes	all	microservices	to	be	rebuilt.	At	the
more	complex	end,	teams	end	up	needing	to	adopt	more	graph-based	build	tools
like	the	open	source	
Bazel
	tool	to	manage	these	dependencies	more	effectively
(Bazel	is	an	open	source	version	of	
Google’s
	own	internal	build	tool).
Implementing	a	new	build	system	can	be	a	significant	undertaking,	so	it	is	not
something	to	be	done	lightly—but	Google’s	own	monorepo	would	be	impossible
without	tools	like	this.
One	of	the	benefits	of	a	monorepo	approach	is	that	we	can	practice	finer-grained
reuse	across	projects.	With	a	multirepo	model,	if	I	want	to	reuse	someone	else’s
code,	it	will	likely	have	to	be	packaged	as	a	versioned	artifact	that	I	can	then
include	as	part	of	my	build	(such	as	a	Nuget	package,	a	JAR	file,	or	an	NPM).
--- PAGE 270 ---
With	our	unit	of	reuse	being	a	library,	we	are	potentially	pulling	in	more	code
than	we	really	want.	Theoretically,	with	a	monorepo	I	could	just	depend	on	a
single	source	file	from	another	project—although	this	of	course	will	cause	me	to
have	a	more	complex	build	
mapping
.
Defining	ownership
With	smaller	team	sizes	and	small	codebase	sizes,	monorepos	can	likely	work
well	with	the	traditional	build	and	source	code	management	tools	that	you	are
used	to.	However,	as	your	monorepo	gets	bigger,	you’ll	likely	need	to	start
looking	at	different	types	of	tools.	We’ll	explore	ownership	models	in	more
detail	in	
Chapter	15
,	but	in	the	meantime	it’s	worth	exploring	briefly	how	this
plays	out	when	we	think	about	source	control.
Martin	Fowler	has	
previously	written
	about	different	ownership	models,
outlining	a	sliding	scale	of	ownership	from	
strong	ownership
	through	
weak
ownership
	and	on	to	
collective	ownership
.	Since	Martin	captured	those	terms,
development	practices	have	changed,	so	it’s	perhaps	worth	revisiting	and
redefining	these	terms.
With	strong	ownership,	some	code	is	owned	by	a	specific	group	of	people.	If
someone	from	outside	that	group	wants	to	make	a	change,	they	have	to	ask	the
owners	to	make	the	change	for	them.	Weak	ownership	still	has	the	concept	of
defined	owners,	but	people	outside	the	ownership	group	are	allowed	to	make
changes,	although	any	of	these	changes	must	be	reviewed	and	accepted	by
someone	in	the	ownership	group.	This	would	cover	a	pull	request	being	sent	to
the	core	ownership	team	for	review,	before	the	pull	request	is	merged.	With
collective	ownership,	any	developer	can	change	any	piece	of	code.
With	a	small	number	of	developers	(20	or	fewer,	as	a	general	guide),	you	can
afford	to	practice	collective	ownership—where	any	developer	can	change	any
other	microservice.	As	you	have	more	people,	though,	you’re	more	likely	to
want	to	move	toward	either	a	strong	or	weak	ownership	model	to	create	more
defined	boundaries	of	responsibility.	This	can	cause	a	challenge	for	teams	using
monorepos	if	their	source	control	tool	doesn’t	support	finer-grained	ownership
controls.
Some	source	code	tools	allow	you	to	specify	ownership	of	specific	directories	or
even	specific	filepaths	inside	a	single	repository.	Google	initially	implemented
--- PAGE 271 ---
this	system	on	top	of	Perforce	for	its	own	monorepo	before	developing	its	own
source	control	system,	and	it’s	also	
something	that	GitHub	has	supported
	since
2016.	With	GitHub,	you	create	a	
CODEOWNERS
	file,	which	lets	you	map	owners	to
directories	or	filepaths.	You	can	see	some	examples	in	
Example	7-1
,	drawn	from
GitHub’s
	own	documentation,	that	show	the	kinds	of	flexibility	these	systems
can	bring.
Example	7-1.	
Examples	of	how	to	specify	ownership	in	specific	directories	in	a
GitHub	
CODEOWNERS
	file
# In this example, @doctocat owns any files in the build/logs
# directory at the root of the repository and any of its
# subdirectories.
/build/logs/ @doctocat
# In this example, @octocat owns any file in an apps directory
# anywhere in your repository.
apps/ @octocat
# In this example, @doctocat owns any file in the `/docs`
# directory in the root of your repository.
/docs/ @doctocat
GitHub’s	own	code	ownership	concept	ensures	that	code	owners	for	source	files
are	requested	for	review	whenever	a	pull	request	is	raised	for	the	relevant	files.
This	could	be	a	problem	with	larger	pull	requests,	as	you	could	end	up	needing
sign-off	from	multiple	reviewers,	but	there	are	lots	of	good	reasons	to	aim	for
smaller	pull	requests,	in	any	case.
Tooling
Google’s	own	monorepo	is	massive,	and	it	takes	significant	amounts	of
engineering	to	make	it	work	at	scale.	Consider	things	like	a	graph-based	build
system	that	has	gone	through	multiple	generations,	a	distributed	object	linker	to
speed	up	build	times,	plug-ins	for	IDEs	and	text	editors	that	can	dynamically
keep	dependency	files	in	check—it’s	an	enormous	amount	of	work.	As	Google
grew,	it	increasingly	hit	limitations	on	its	use	of	Perforce	and	ended	up	having	to
create	its	own	proprietary	source	control	tool	called	Piper.	When	I	worked	in	this
part	of	Google	back	in	2007–2008,	there	were	over	a	hundred	people
maintaining	various	developer	tools,	with	a	significant	part	of	this	effort	given
over	to	dealing	with	implications	of	the	monorepo	approach.	That’s	something
--- PAGE 272 ---
that	you	can	justify	if	you	have	tens	of	thousands	of	engineers,	of	course.
For	a	more	detailed	overview	of	the	rationale	behind	Google’s	use	of	a
monorepo,	I	recommend	
“Why	Google	Stores	Billions	of	Lines	of	Code	in	a
Single	Repository”
	by	Rachel	Potvin	and	Josh	Levenberg.
	In	fact,	I’d	suggest	it
is	required	reading	for	anyone	thinking,	“We	should	use	a	monorepo,	because
Google	does!”	Your	organization	probably	isn’t	Google	and	probably	doesn’t
have	Google-type	problems,	constraints,	or	resources.	Put	another	way,	whatever
monorepo	you	end	up	with	probably	won’t	be	Google’s.
Microsoft	experienced	similar	issues	with	scale.	It	adopted	Git	to	help	manage
the	main	source	code	repository	for	Windows.	A	full	working	directory	for	this
codebase	is	around	270	GB	of	source	files.
	Downloading	all	of	that	would	take
an	age,	and	it’s	also	not	necessary—developers	will	end	up	working	on	just	one
small	part	of	the	overall	system.	So	Microsoft	had	to	create	a	dedicated	virtual
file	system,	VFS	for	Git	(previously	known	as	GVFS),	that	ensures	only	the
source	files	that	a	developer	needs	are	actually	downloaded.
VFS	for	Git
	is	an	impressive	achievement,	as	is	Google’s	own	toolchain,
although	justifying	these	kinds	of	investments	in	this	sort	of	technology	is	much
easier	for	companies	like	this.	It’s	also	worth	pointing	out	that	although	VFS	for
Git	is	open	source,	I’ve	yet	to	meet	a	team	outside	Microsoft	using	it—and	the
vast	bulk	of	Google’s	own	toolchain	supporting	its	monorepo	is	closed	source
(Bazel	is	a	notable	exception,	but	it’s	unclear	to	what	extent	the	open	source
Bazel	actually	mirrors	what	is	used	inside	Google	itself).
Markus	Oberlehner’s	piece	
“Monorepos	in	the	Wild”
	introduced	me	to	
Lerna
,	a
tool	created	by	the	team	behind	the	Babel	JavaScript	compiler.	Lerna	is	designed
to	make	it	easier	to	produce	multiple	versioned	artifacts	from	the	same	source
code	repository.	I	can’t	speak	directly	to	how	effective	Lerna	is	at	this	task	(in
addition	to	a	number	of	other	notable	deficiencies,	I	am	not	an	experienced
JavaScript	developer),	but	it	seems	from	a	surface	examination	to	simplify	this
approach	somewhat.
How	“mono”	is	mono?
Google	doesn’t	store	
all
	of	its	code	in	a	monorepo.	There	are	some	projects,
especially	those	being	developed	in	the	open,	that	are	held	elsewhere.
Nonetheless,	at	least	based	on	the	previously	mentioned	ACM	article,	95%	of
5
6
--- PAGE 273 ---
Google’s	code	was	stored	in	the	monorepo	as	of	2016.	In	other	organizations,	a
monorepo	may	be	scoped	to	only	one	system,	or	to	a	small	number	of	systems.
This	means	a	company	could	have	a	small	number	of	monorepos	for	different
parts	of	the	organization.
I’ve	also	spoken	to	teams	that	practice	per-team	monorepos.	While	technically
speaking	this	probably	doesn’t	match	up	to	the	original	definition	of	this	pattern
(which	typically	talks	in	terms	of	multiple	teams	sharing	the	same	repository),	I
still	think	it’s	more	“monorepo”	than	anything	else.	In	this	situation,	each	team
has	its	own	monorepo	that	is	fully	under	its	control.	All	microservices	owned	by
that	team	have	their	code	stored	in	that	team’s	monorepo,	as	shown	in	
Figure	7-
11
.
Figure	7-11.	
A	pattern	variation	in	which	each	team	has	its	own	monorepo
For	teams	practicing	collective	ownership,	this	model	has	a	lot	of	benefits,
--- PAGE 274 ---
arguably	providing	most	of	the	advantages	of	a	monorepo	approach	while
sidestepping	some	of	the	challenges	that	occur	at	larger	scale.	This	halfway
house	can	make	a	lot	of	sense	in	terms	of	working	within	existing	organizational
ownership	boundaries,	and	it	can	somewhat	mitigate	the	concerns	about	the	use
of	this	pattern	at	larger	scale.
Where	to	use	this	pattern
Some	organizations	working	at	very	large	scale	have	found	the	monorepo
approach	to	work	very	well	for	them.	We’ve	already	mentioned	Google	and
Microsoft,	and	we	can	add	Facebook,	Twitter,	and	Uber	to	the	list.	These
organizations	all	have	one	thing	in	common—they	are	big,	tech-focused
companies	that	are	able	to	dedicate	significant	resources	to	getting	the	best	out
of	this	pattern.	Where	I	see	monorepos	work	well	is	at	the	other	end	of	the
spectrum,	with	smaller	numbers	of	developers	and	teams.	With	10	to	20
developers,	it	is	easier	to	manage	ownership	boundaries	and	keep	the	build
process	simple	with	the	monorepo	approach.	Pain	points	seem	to	emerge	for
organizations	in	the	middle—those	with	the	scale	to	start	hitting	issues	that
require	new	tooling	or	ways	of	working,	but	without	the	spare	bandwidth	to
invest	in	these	ideas.
Which	Approach	Would	I	Use?
In	my	experience,	the	main	advantages	of	a	monorepo	approach—finer-grained
reuse	and	atomic	commits—don’t	seem	to	outweigh	the	challenges	that	emerge
at	scale.	For	smaller	teams,	either	approach	is	fine,	but	as	you	scale,	I	feel	that
the	one	repository	per	microservice	(multirepos)	approach	is	more
straightforward.	Fundamentally,	I’m	concerned	about	the	encouragement	of
cross-service	changes,	the	more	confused	lines	of	ownership,	and	the	need	for
new	tooling	that	monorepos	can	bring.
A	problem	I’ve	seen	repeatedly	is	that	organizations	that	started	small,	where
collective	ownership	(and	therefore	monorepos)	worked	well	initially,	have
struggled	to	move	to	different	models	later	on,	as	the	concept	of	the	monorepo	is
so	ingrained.	As	the	delivery	organization	grows,	the	pain	of	the	monorepo
increases,	but	so	too	does	the	cost	of	migrating	to	an	alternative	approach.	This
is	even	more	challenging	for	organizations	that	grew	rapidly,	as	it’s	often	only
--- PAGE 275 ---
after	that	rapid	growth	has	occurred	that	the	problems	become	evident,	at	which
point	the	cost	of	migration	to	a	multirepo	approach	looks	too	high.	This	can	lead
to	the	sunk	cost	fallacy:	you’ve	invested	so	much	in	making	the	monorepo	work
up	to	this	point—just	a	bit	more	investment	will	make	it	work	as	well	as	it	used
to,	right?	Perhaps	not—but	it’s	a	brave	soul	who	can	recognize	that	they	are
throwing	good	money	after	bad	and	make	a	decision	to	change	course.
The	concerns	about	ownership	and	monorepos	can	be	alleviated	through	the	use
of	fine-grained	ownership	controls,	but	that	tends	to	require	tooling	and/or	an
increased	level	of	diligence.	My	opinion	on	this	might	change	as	the	maturity	of
tooling	around	monorepos	improves,	but	despite	a	lot	of	work	being	done	in
regard	to	the	open	source	development	of	graph-based	build	tools,	I’m	still
seeing	very	low	take-up	of	these	toolchains.	So	it’s	multirepos	for	me.
Summary
We’ve	covered	some	important	ideas	in	this	chapter	that	should	stand	you	in
good	stead	whether	or	not	you	end	up	using	microservices.	There	are	many	more
aspects	to	explore	around	these	ideas,	from	continuous	delivery	to	trunk-based
development,	monorepos	to	multirepos.	I’ve	given	you	a	host	of	resources	and
further	reading,	but	it’s	time	for	us	to	move	on	to	a	subject	that	is	important	to
explore	in	some	depth—deployment.
1
	Alanna	Brown,	Nicole	Forsgren,	Jez	Humble,	Nigel	Kersten,	and	Gene	Kim,	
2016	State	of	DevOps
Report
,	
https://oreil.ly/YqEEh
.
2
	Nicole	Forsgren,	Dustin	Smith,	Jez	Humble,	and	Jessie	Frazelle,	
Accelerate:	State	of	DevOps
	2019,
https://oreil.ly/mfkIJ
.
3
	For	more	details,	see	Jez	Humble	and	David	Farley,	
Continuous	Delivery:	Reliable	Software
Releases	Through	Build,	Test,	and	Deployment	Automation
	(Upper	Saddle	River,	NJ:	Addison-
Wesley,	2010).
4
	See	“Managing	Dependency	Graphs”	in	
Continuous	Delivery
,	pp.	363–73.
5
	Rachel	Potvin	and	Josh	Levenberg,	“Why	Google	Stores	Billions	of	Lines	of	Code	in	a	Single
Repository,”	
Communications	of	the	ACM
	59,	no.	7	(July	2016):	78–87.
6
	See	
Git	Virtual	File	System	Design	History
.
--- PAGE 276 ---
Chapter	8.	
Deployment
Deploying	a	single-process	monolithic	application	is	a	fairly	straightforward
process.	Microservices,	with	their	interdependence	and	wealth	of	technology
options,	are	a	different	kettle	of	fish	altogether.	When	I	wrote	the	first	edition	of
this	book,	this	chapter	already	had	a	lot	to	say	about	the	huge	variety	of	options
available	to	you.	Since	then,	Kubernetes	has	come	to	the	fore,	and	Function	as	a
Service	(FaaS)	platforms	have	given	us	even	more	ways	to	think	about	how	to
actually	ship	our	software.
Although	the	technology	may	have	changed	over	the	last	decade,	I	think	many	of
the	core	principles	associated	with	building	software	haven’t	changed.	In	fact,	I
think	it’s	all	the	more	important	that	we	thoroughly	understand	these
foundational	ideas,	as	they	can	help	us	understand	how	to	navigate	this	chaotic
landscape	of	new	technology.	With	that	in	mind,	this	chapter	will	highlight	some
core	principles	related	to	deployment	that	are	important	to	understand,	while	also
showing	how	the	different	tools	available	to	you	may	help	(or	hinder)	in	regard
to	putting	these	principles	into	practice.
To	start	off	with,	though,	let’s	peek	behind	the	curtain	a	bit	and	look	at	what
happens	as	we	move	from	a	logical	view	of	our	systems	architecture	toward	a
real	physical	deployment	topology.
From	Logical	to	Physical
To
	this	point,	when	we’ve	discussed	microservices,	we’ve	spoken	about	them	in
a	logical	sense	rather	than	in	a	physical	sense.	We	could	talk	about	how	our
Invoice
	microservice	communicates	with	the	
Order
	microservice,	as	shown	in
Figure	8-1
,	without	actually	looking	at	the	physical	topology	of	how	these
services	are	deployed.	A	logical	view	of	an	architecture	typically	abstracts	away
underlying	physical	deployment	concerns—that	notion	needs	to	change	for	the
scope	of	this	chapter.
--- PAGE 277 ---
Figure	8-1.	
A	simple,	logical	view	of	two	microservices
This	logical	view	of	our	microservices	can	hide	a	wealth	of	complexity	when	it
comes	to	actually	running	them	on	real	infrastructure.	Let’s	take	a	look	at	what
sorts	of	details	might	be	hidden	by	a	diagram	like	this.
Multiple	Instances
When
	we	think	about	the	deployment	topology	of	the	two	microservices	(in
Figure	8-2
),	it’s	not	as	simple	as	one	thing	talking	to	another.	To	start	with,	it
seems	quite	likely	that	we’ll	have	more	than	one	instance	of	each	service.
Having	multiple	instances	of	a	service	allows	you	to	handle	more	load	and	can
also	improve	the	robustness	of	your	system,	as	you	can	more	easily	tolerate	the
failure	of	a	single	instance.	So	we	potentially	have	one	or	more	instances	of
Invoice
	talking	to	one	or	more	instances	of	
Order
.	Exactly	how	the
communication	between	these	instances	is	handled	will	depend	on	the	nature	of
the	communication	mechanism,	but	if	we	assume	that	in	this	situation	we’re
using	some	form	of	HTTP-based	API,	a	load	balancer	would	be	enough	to
handle	routing	of	requests	to	different	instances,	as	we	see	in	
Figure	8-2
.
--- PAGE 278 ---
Figure	8-2.	
Using	a	load	balancer	to	map	requests	to	specific	instances	of	the	
Order
	microservice
The	number	of	instances	you’ll	want	will	depend	on	the	nature	of	your
application—you’ll	need	to	assess	the	required	redundancy,	expected	load	levels,
and	the	like	to	come	up	with	a	workable	number.	You	may	also	need	to	take	into
account	where	these	instances	will	run.	If	you	have	multiple	instances	of	a
service	for	robustness	reasons,	you	likely	want	to	make	sure	that	these	instances
aren’t	all	on	the	same	underlying	hardware.	Taken	further,	this	might	require	that
you	have	different	instances	distributed	not	only	across	multiple	machines	but
also	across	different	data	centers,	to	give	you	protection	against	a	whole	data
center	being	made	unavailable.	This	might	lead	to	a	deployment	topology	like
the	one	in	
Figure	8-3
.
--- PAGE 279 ---
Figure	8-3.	
Distributing	instances	across	multiple	different	data	centers
This	might	seem	overly	cautious—what	are	the	chances	of	an	entire	data	center
being	unavailable?	Well,	I	can’t	answer	that	question	for	every	situation,	but	at
least	when	dealing	with	the	main	cloud	providers,	this	is	absolutely	something
you	have	to	take	account	of.	When	it	comes	to	something	like	a	managed	virtual
machine,	neither	AWS	nor	Azure
	nor	Google	will	give	you	an	SLA	for	a	single
machine,	nor	do	they	give	you	an	SLA	for	a	single	availability	zone	(which	is	the
closest	equivalent	to	a	data	center	for	these	providers).	In	practice,	this	means
that	any	solution	you	deploy	should	be	distributed	across	multiple	availability
zones.
The	Database
Taking
	this	further,	there	is	another	major	component	that	we’ve	ignored	up	until
this	point—the	database.	As	I’ve	already	discussed,	we	want	a	microservice	to
hide	its	internal	state	management,	so	any	database	used	by	a	microservice	for
managing	its	state	is	considered	to	be	hidden	inside	the	microservice.	This	leads
to	the	oft-stated	mantra	of	“don’t	share	databases,”	the	case	for	which	I	hope	has
already	been	made	sufficiently	by	now.
--- PAGE 280 ---
But	how	does	this	work	when	we	consider	the	fact	that	I	have	multiple
microservice	instances?	Should	each	microservice	
instance
	have	its	own
database?	In	a	word,	no.	In	most	cases,	if	I	go	to	any	instance	of	my	
Order
service,	I	want	to	be	able	to	get	information	about	the	same	order.	So	we	need
some	degree	of	shared	state	between	different	instances	of	the	same	logical
service.	This	is	shown	in	
Figure	8-4
.
Figure	8-4.	
Multiple	instances	of	the	same	microservice	can	share	a	database
But	doesn’t	this	violate	our	“don’t	share	databases”	rule?	Not	really.	One	of	our
major	concerns	is	that	when	sharing	a	database	across	multiple	different
microservices,	the	logic	associated	with	accessing	and	manipulating	that	state	is
now	spread	across	different	microservices.	But	here	the	data	is	being	shared	by

================================================================================
Ch8 Deployment containers k8s FaaS (PDF pages 293-350)
================================================================================

--- PAGE 293 ---
two	to	three	years,	and	trying	to	get	additional	machines	outside	of	these
timelines	is	difficult.	But	on-demand	computing	platforms	have	drastically
reduced	the	costs	of	computing	resources,	and	improvements	in	virtualization
technology	mean	there	is	more	flexibility,	even	for	in-house	hosted
infrastructure.
With	containerization	joining	the	mix,	we	have	more	options	than	ever	before	for
provisioning	an	isolated	execution	environment.	As	
Figure	8-12
	shows,	broadly
speaking,	we	go	from	the	extreme	of	having	dedicated	physical	machines	for	our
services,	which	gives	us	the	best	isolation	but	probably	the	highest	cost,	to
containers	at	the	other	end,	which	gives	us	weaker	isolation	but	tends	to	be	more
cost	effective	and	much	faster	to	provision.	We’ll	come	back	to	some	of	the
specifics	around	technology	such	as	containerization	later	in	this	chapter.
Figure	8-12.	
Different	trade-offs	around	isolation	models
If
	you	were	deploying	your	microservices	onto	more	abstracted	platforms	such
as	AWS	Lambda	or	Heroku,	this	isolation	would	be	provided	for	you.
Depending	on	the	nature	of	the	platform	itself,	you	could	likely	expect	your
microservice	instance	to	end	up	running	inside	a	container	or	dedicated	VM
behind	the	scenes.
In	general,	the	isolation	around	containers	has	improved	sufficiently	to	make
them	a	more	natural	choice	for	microservice	workloads.	The	difference	in
isolation	between	containers	and	VMs	has	reduced	to	the	point	that	for	the	vast
majority	of	workloads,	containers	are	“good	enough,”	which	is	in	large	part	why
they	are	such	a	popular	choice	and	why	they	tend	to	be	my	default	choice	in
most	situations.
--- PAGE 294 ---
Focus	on	Automation
As
	you	add	more	microservices,	you’ll	have	more	moving	parts	to	deal	with—
more	processes,	more	things	to	configure,	more	instances	to	monitor.	Moving	to
microservices	pushes	a	lot	of	complexity	into	the	operational	space,	and	if	you
are	managing	your	operational	processes	in	a	mostly	manual	way,	this	means
that	more	services	will	require	more	and	more	people	to	do	things.
Instead,	you	need	a	relentless	focus	on	automation.	Select	tooling	and
technology	that	allows	for	things	to	be	done	in	an	automatic	fashion,	ideally	with
a	view	to	working	with	infrastructure	as	code	(which	we’ll	cover	shortly).
As	the	number	of	microservices	increases,	automation	becomes	increasingly
important.	Give	serious	consideration	to	technology	that	allows	for	a	high	degree
of	automation,	and	adopt	automation	as	a	core	part	of	your	culture.
Automation	is	also	how	you	can	make	sure	that	your	developers	still	remain
productive.	Giving	developers	the	ability	to	self-service-provision	individual
services	or	groups	of	services	is	the	key	to	making	their	lives	easier.
Picking	technology	that	enables	automation	starts	with	the	tools	used	to	manage
hosts.	Can	you	write	a	line	of	code	to	launch	a	virtual	machine,	or	shut	one
down?	Can	you	deploy	the	software	you	have	written	automatically?	Can	you
deploy	
database
	changes	without	manual	intervention?	Embracing	a	culture	of
automation	is	key	if	you	want	to	keep	the	complexities	of	microservice
architectures	in	check.
Two	case	studies	on	the	power	of	automation
It	will	probably	be	helpful	to	give	you	a	couple	of	concrete	examples	that
explain	the	power	of	good	automation.	The	Australian	company
realestate.com.au	(REA)	provides	real	estate	listings	for	retail	and	commercial
customers	in	Australia	and	elsewhere	in	the	Asia-Pacific	region.	Over	a	number
of	years,	it	had	been	moving	its	platform	toward	a	distributed	microservices
design.	When	it	started	on	this	journey,	it	had	to	spend	a	lot	of	time	getting	the
tooling	around	the	services	just	right—making	it	easy	for	developers	to
provision	machines,	deploy	their	code,	and	monitor	their	services.	This	caused	a
front-loading	of	work	to	get	things	started.
In	the	first	three	months	of	this	exercise,	REA	was	able	to	move	just	two	new
--- PAGE 295 ---
microservices	into	production,	with	the	development	team	taking	full
responsibility	for	the	entire	build,	deployment,	and	support	of	the	services.	In	the
next	three	months,	between	10	to	15	services	went	live	in	a	similar	manner.	By
the	end	of	an	18-month	period,	REA	had	more	than	70	services	in	production.
This	sort	of	pattern	is	also	borne	out	by	the	experiences	of	Gilt,	which	we
mentioned	earlier.	Again,	automation,	especially	tooling	to	help	developers,
drove	the	explosion	in	Gilt’s	use	of	microservices.	A	year	after	starting	its
migration	to	microservices,	Gilt	had	around	10	microservices	live;	by	2012,	over
100;	and	in	2014,	over	450	microservices	were	live—or	around	three
microservices	for	every	developer	in	Gilt.	This	sort	of	ratio	of	microservices	to
developers	is	not	uncommon	among	organizations	that	are	mature	in	their	use	of
microservices,	the	
Financial	Times
	being	a	company	with	a	similar	ratio.
Infrastructure	as	Code	(IAC)
Taking
	the	concept	of	automation	further,	infrastructure	as	code	(IAC)	is	a
concept	whereby	your	infrastructure	is	configured	by	using	machine-readable
code.	You	might	define	your	service	configuration	in	a	chef	or	puppet	file,	or
perhaps	write	some	bash	scripts	to	set	things	up—but	whatever	tool	you	end	up
using,	your	system	can	be	brought	into	a	known	state	through	the	use	of	source
code.	Arguably,	the	concept	of	IAC	could	be	considered	one	way	to	implement
automation.	I	think,	though,	that	it’s	worth	calling	it	out	as	its	own	thing,	because
it	speaks	to	
how
	automation	should	be	done.	Infrastructure	as	code	has	brought
concepts	from	software	development	into	the	operations	space.	By	defining	our
infrastructure	via	code,	this	
configuration
	can	be	version	controlled,	tested,	and
repeated	at	will.	For	more	on	this	topic,	I	recommend	
Infrastructure	as	Code
,
2nd	edition,	by	Kief	Morris.
Theoretically,	you	could	use	any	programming	language	to	apply	the	ideas	of
infrastructure	as	code,	but	there	are	specialist	tools	in	this	area	such	as	Puppet,
Chef,	Ansible,	and	others,	all	of	which	took	their	lead	from	the	earlier
CFEngine.	These	tools	are	declarative—they	allow	you	to	define	in	textual	form
what	you	expect	a	machine	(or	other	set	of	resources)	to	look	like,	and	when
these	scripts	are	applied,	the	infrastructure	is	brought	into	that	state.	More	recent
tools	have	gone	beyond	looking	at	configuring	a	machine	and	moved	into
looking	at	how	to	configure	entire	sets	of	cloud	resources—Terraform	has	been
1
--- PAGE 296 ---
very	successful	in	this	space,	and	I’m	excited	to	see	the	potential	of	Pulumi,
which	is	aiming	to	do	something	similar,	albeit	by	allowing	people	to	use	normal
programming	languages	rather	than	the	domain-specific	languages	that	often	get
used	by	these	tools.	AWS	CloudFormation	and	the	AWS	Cloud	Development	Kit
(CDK)	are
	examples	of	platform-specific	tools,	in	this	case	supporting	only
AWS—although	it’s	worth	noting	that	even	if	I	was	working	only	with	AWS,	I’d
prefer	the	flexibility	of	a	cross-platform	tool	like	Terraform.
Version	controlling
	your	infrastructure	code	gives	you	transparency	over	who
has	made	changes,	something	that	auditors	love.	It	also	makes	it	easier	to
reproduce	an	environment	at	a	given	point	in	time.	This	is	something	that	can	be
especially	useful	when	trying	to	track	down	defects.	In	one	memorable	example,
one	of	my	clients,	as	part	of	a	court	case,	had	to	re-create	an	entire	running
system	as	of	a	specific	time	some	years	before,	down	to	the	patch	levels	of	the
operating	systems	and	the	contents	of	message	brokers.	If	the	environment
configuration	had	been	stored	in	version	control,	their	job	would	have	been
much	easier—as	it	was,	they	ended	up	spending	over	three	months	painstakingly
trying	to	rebuild	a	mirror	image	of	an	earlier	production	environment	by	wading
through	emails	and	release	notes	to	try	and	work	out	what	was	done	by	whom.
The	court	case,	which	had	already	been	going	for	a	long	period	of	time,	was	still
not	resolved	by	the	time	I	ended	my	work	with	the	client.
Zero-Downtime	Deployment
As
	you	are	probably	sick	and	tired	of	hearing	me	say,	independent	deployability
is	really	important.	It	is,	however,	also	not	an	absolute	quality.	
How	independent
is	something	exactly?	Before	this	chapter,	we’d	primarily	looked	at	independent
deployability	in	terms	of	avoiding	implementation	coupling.	Earlier	in	this
chapter,	we	spoke	about	the	importance	of	providing	a	microservice	instance
with	an	isolated	execution	environment,	to	ensure	it	has	a	degree	of
independence	at	the	physical	deployment	level.	But	we	can	go	further.
Implementing	the	ability	for	zero-downtime	deployment	can	be	a	huge	step	up	in
allowing	microservices	to	be	developed	and	deployed.	Without	zero-downtime
deployment,	I	may	have	to	coordinate	with	upstream	consumers	when	I	release
software	to	alert	them	of	a	potential	outage.
Sarah	Wells	at	the	
Financial	Times
	cites	the	ability	to	implement	zero-downtime
--- PAGE 297 ---
deployment	as	being	the	single	biggest	benefit	in	terms	of	
improving	the	speed
of	delivery.	With	the	confidence	that	releases	wouldn’t	interrupt	its	users,	the
Financial	Times
	was	able	to	drastically	increase	the	frequency	of	releases.	In
addition,	a	zero-downtime	release	can	be	much	more	easily	done	during	working
hours.	Quite	aside	from	the	fact	that	doing	so	improves	the	quality	of	life	of	the
people	involved	with	the	release	(compared	to	working	evenings	and	weekends),
a	well-rested	team	working	during	the	day	is	less	likely	to	make	mistakes	and
will	have	support	from	many	of	their	colleagues	when	they	need	to	fix	issues.
The	goal	here	is	that	upstream	consumers	shouldn’t	notice	at	all	when	you	do	a
release.	Making	this	possible	can	depend	greatly	on	the	nature	of	your
microservice.	If	you’re	already	making	use	of	middleware-backed	asynchronous
communication	between	your	microservice	and	your	consumers,	this	might	be
trivial	to	implement—messages	sent	to	you	will	be	delivered	when	you	are	back
up.	If	you’re	making	use	of	synchronous-based	communication,	though,	this	can
be	more	problematic.
Concepts	like	rolling	upgrades	can	be	handy	here,	and	this	is	one	area	where	the
use	of	a	platform	like	Kubernetes	makes	your	life	much	easier.	With	a	rolling
upgrade,	your	microservice	isn’t	totally	shut	down	before	the	new	version	is
deployed,	instead	instances	of	your	microservice	are	slowly	ramped	down	as
new	instances	running	new	versions	of	your	software	are	ramped	up.	It’s	worth
noting,	though,	that	if	the	only	thing	you	are	looking	for	is	something	to	help
with	zero-downtime	deployments,	then	implementing	Kubernetes	is	likely	huge
overkill.	Something	simple	like	a	blue-green	deployment	mechanism	(which
we’ll	explore	more	in	
“Separating	Deployment	from	Release”
)	can	work	just	as
effectively.
There	can	be	additional	challenges	in	terms	of	dealing	with	problems	like	long-
lived	connections	and	the	like.	It’s	certainly	true	that	if	you	build	a	microservice
with	zero-downtime	deployment	in	mind,	you’ll	likely	have	a	much	easier	time
of	it	than	if	you	took	an	existing	systems	architecture	and	attempted	to	retrofit
this	concept	afterwards.	Whether	or	not	you	are	able	to	implement	a	zero-
downtime	deployment	for	your	services	initially,	if	you	can	get	there	you’ll
certainly	appreciate	that	increased	level	of	independence.
Desired	State	Management
--- PAGE 298 ---
Desired	state	management
	is
	the	ability	to	specify	the	infrastructure
requirements	you	have	for	your	application,	and	for	those	requirements	to	be
maintained	without	manual	intervention.	If	the	running	system	changes	in	such	a
way	that	your	desired	state	is	no	longer	maintained,	the	underlying	platform
takes	the	required	steps	to	bring	the	system	back	into	desired	state.
As	a	simple	example	of	how	desired	state	management	might	work,	you	could
specify	the	number	of	instances	your	microservice	requires,	perhaps	also
specifying	how	much	memory	and	CPU	those	instances	need.	Some	underlying
platform	takes	this	configuration	and	applies	it,	bringing	the	system	into	the
desired	state.	It’s	up	to	the	platform	to,	among	other	things,	identify	which
machines	have	spare	resources	that	can	be	allocated	to	run	the	requested	number
of	instances.	As	
Figure	8-13
	shows,	if	one	of	those	instances	dies,	the	platform
recognizes	that	the	current	state	doesn’t	match	the	desired	state	and	takes
appropriate	action	by	launching	a	replacement	instance.
Figure	8-13.	
A	platform	providing	desired	state	management,	spinning	up	a	new	instance	when	one	dies
The	beauty	of	desired	state	management	is	that	the	platform	itself	manages	how
the	desired	state	is	maintained.	It	frees	development	and	operations	people	alike
from	having	to	worry	about	exactly	how	things	are	being	done—they	just	have
to	focus	on	getting	the	desired	state	definition	right	in	the	first	place.	It	also
means	that	in	the	event	of	a	problem	occurring,	such	as	an	instance	dying,	the
underlying	hardware	failing,	or	a	data	center	shutting	down,	the	platform	can
handle	the	issue	for	you	without	human	intervention	being	required.
While	it’s	possible	to	build	your	own	toolchain	to	apply	desired	state
management,	typically	you	use	a	platform	that	already	supports	it.	Kubernetes	is
--- PAGE 299 ---
one	such	tool	that	embraces	this	idea,	and	you	can	also	achieve	something
similar	using	concepts	such	as	autoscaling	groups	on	a	public	cloud	provider	like
Azure	or	AWS.	Another	platform	that	can	provide	this	capability	is	
Nomad
.
Unlike	Kubernetes,	which	is	focused	on	deploying	and	managing	container-
based	workloads,	Nomad	has	a	very	flexible	model	around	running	other	sorts	of
application	workloads	as	well,	such	as	Java	applications,	VMs,	Hadoop	jobs,	and
more.	It	may	be	worth	a	look	if	you	want	a	platform	for	managing	mixed
workloads	that	still	makes	use	of	concepts	like	desired	state	management.
These	platforms	are	aware	of	the	underlying	availability	of	resources	and	are
able	to	match	the	requests	for	desired	state	to	the	available	resources	(or	else	tell
you	this	isn’t	possible).	As	an	operator,	you	are	distanced	from	the	low-level
configuration—you	can	say	something	simple	like	“I	want	four	instances	spread
across	both	data	centers”	and	rely	on	your	platform	to	ensure	this	is	done	for
you.	Different	platforms	provide	different	levels	of	control—you	can	get	much
more	complex	with	your	desired	state	definition	if	you	want.
The
	use	of	desired	state	management	can	occasionally	cause	you	problems	if	you
forget	you’re	making	use	of	it.	I	remember	a	situation	in	which	I	was	shutting
down	a	development	cluster	on	AWS	before	I	went	home.	I	was	shutting	down
the	managed	virtual	machine	instances	(provided	by	AWS’s	EC2	product)	to
save	money—they	weren’t	going	to	be	used	overnight.	However,	I	found	that	as
soon	as	I	killed	one	of	the	instances,	another	instance	popped	back	up.	It	took	me
a	while	to	realize	that	I	had	configured	an	autoscaling	group	to	ensure	that	there
was	a	minimum	number	of	machines.	AWS	was	seeing	an	instance	die	and
spinning	up	a	replacement.	It	took	me	15	minutes	of	playing	whack-a-mole	like
this	before	I	realized	what	was	up.	The	problem	was	that	we	were	charged	for
EC2	on	a	per-hour	basis.	Even	if	an	instance	ran	for	only	a	minute,	we	got
charged	for	the	full	hour.	So	my	flailing	around	at	the	end	of	the	day	ended	up
being	quite	costly.	In	a	way,	this	was	a	sign	of	success	(at	least	that’s	what	I	told
myself)—we’d	set	up	the	autoscaling	group	some	time	before,	and	they	had	just
worked	to	the	point	that	we	had	forgotten	they	were	there.	It	was	simply	a	matter
of	writing	a	script	to	disable	the	autoscaling	group	as	part	of	the	cluster
shutdown	to	fix	the	problem	in	the	future.
Prerequisites
To	take	advantage	of	desired	state	management,	the	platform	needs	some	way	to
--- PAGE 300 ---
automatically	launch	instances	of	your	microservice.	So	having	a	fully
automated	deployment	for	microservice	instances	is	a	clear	prerequisite	for
desired	state	management.	You	may	also	need	to	give	careful	thought	to	how
long	it	takes	your	instances	to	launch.	If	you	are	using	desired	state	management
to	ensure	there	are	enough	computing	resources	to	handle	user	load,	then	if	an
instance	dies,	you’ll	want	a	replacement	instance	as	quickly	as	possible	to	fill	the
gap.	If	provisioning	a	new	instance	takes	a	long	time,	you	may	need	to	have
excess	capacity	in	place	to	handle	the	load	in	the	event	of	an	instance	dying	so	as
to	give	yourself	enough	breathing	room	to	bring	up	a	new	copy.
Although	you	could	hack	together	a	desired	state	management	solution	for
yourself,	I’m	not	convinced	it’s	a	good	use	of	your	time.	If	you	want	to	embrace
this	concept,	I	think	you	are	better	off	adopting	a	platform	that	embraces	it	as	a
first-class	concept.	As	this	means	coming	to	grips	with	what	might	represent	a
new	deployment	platform	and	all	the	associated	ideas	and	tooling,	you	might
want	to	delay	adopting	desired	state	management	until	you	already	have	a	few
microservices	up	and	running.	This	will	allow	you	to	get	familiar	with	the	basics
of	microservices	before	becoming	overloaded	with	new	technology.	Platforms
like	Kubernetes	really	help	when	you	have	lots	of	things	to	manage—if	you	only
have	a	few	processes	to	worry	about,	you	could	wait	till	later	on	to	adopt	these
tools.
GitOps
GitOps,	a
	fairly	recent	concept	pioneered	by	Weaveworks,	brings	together	the
concepts	of	desired	state	management	and	infrastructure	as	code.	GitOps	was
originally	conceived	in	the	context	of	working	with	Kubernetes,	and	this	is
where	the	related	tooling	is	focused,	although	arguably	it	describes	a	workflow
that	others	have	used	before.
With	GitOps,	your	desired	state	for	your	infrastructure	is	defined	in	code	and
stored	in	source	control.	When	changes	are	made	to	this	desired	state,	some
tooling	ensures	that	this	updated	desired	state	is	applied	to	the	running	system.
The	idea	is	to	give	developers	a	simplified	workflow	for	working	with	their
applications.
If	you’ve	used	infrastructure	configuration	tools	like	Chef	or	Puppet,	this	model
is	familiar	for	managing	infrastructure.	When	using	Chef	Server	or	Puppet
--- PAGE 301 ---
Master,	you	had	a	centralized	system	capable	of	pushing	out	changes
dynamically	when	they	were	made.	The	shift	with	GitOps	is	that	this	tooling	is
making	use	of	capabilities	inside	Kubernetes	to	help	manage	applications	rather
than	just	infrastructure.
Tools	like	
Flux
	are	making	it	much	easier	to	embrace	these	ideas.	It’s	worth
noting,	of	course,	that	while	tools	can	make	it	easier	for	you	to	change	the	way
you	work,	they	can’t	force	you	into	adopting	new	working	approaches.	Put
differently,	just	because	you	have	Flux	(or	another	GitOps	tool),	it	doesn’t	mean
you’re	embracing	the	ideas	of	desired	state	management	or	infrastructure	as
code.
If	you’re	in	the	world	of	Kubernetes,	adopting	a	tool	like	Flux	and	the
workflows	it	promotes	may	well	speed	up	the	introduction	of	concepts	like
desired	state	management	and	infrastructure	as	code.	Just	make	sure	you	don’t
lose	sight	of	the	goals	of	the	underlying	concepts	and	get	blinded	by	all	the	new
technology	in	this	space!
Deployment	Options
When
	it	comes	to	the	approaches	and	tooling	we	can	use	for	our	microservice
workloads,	we	have	
loads
	of	options.	But	we	should	look	at	these	options	in
terms	of	the	principles	I	just	outlined.	We	want	our	microservices	to	run	in	an
isolated	fashion	and	to	ideally	be	deployed	in	a	way	that	avoids	downtime.	We
want	the	tooling	we	pick	to	allow	us	to	embrace	a	culture	of	automation,	define
our	infrastructure	and	application	configuration	in	code,	and	ideally	also	manage
desired	state	for	us.
Let’s	briefly	summarize	the	various	deployment	options	before	looking	at	how
well	they	deliver	on	these	ideas:
Physical	machine
A	microservice	instance	is	deployed	directly	onto	a	physical	machine,	with
no	virtualization.
Virtual	machine
A	microservice	instance	is	deployed	on	to	a	virtual	machine.
--- PAGE 302 ---
Container
A	microservice	instance	runs	as	a	separate	container	on	a	virtual	or	physical
machine.	That	container	runtime	may	be	managed	by	a	container
orchestration	tool	like	Kubernetes.
Application	container
A	microservice	instance	is	run	inside	an	application	container	that	manages
other	application	instances,	typically	on	the	same	runtime.
Platform	as	a	Service	(PaaS)
A	more	highly	abstracted	platform	is	used	to	deploy	microservice	instances,
often	abstracting	away	all	concepts	of	the	underlying	servers	used	to	run
your	microservices.	Examples	include	Heroku,	Google	App	Engine,	and
AWS	
Beanstalk
.
Function	as	a	Service	(FaaS)
A
	microservice	instance	is	deployed	as	one	or	more	functions,	which	are	run
and	managed	by	an	underlying	platform	like	AWS	Lambda	or
	Azure
Functions.	Arguably,	FaaS	is	a	specific	type	of	PaaS,	but	it	deserves
exploration	in	its	own	right	given	the	recent	popularity	of	the	idea	and	the
questions	it	raises	about	mapping	from	a	microservice	to	a	deployed	artifact.
Physical	Machines
An
	increasingly	rare	option,	you	may	find	yourself	deploying	microservices
directly
	onto	physical	machines.	By	“directly,”	I	mean	that	there	are	no	layers	of
virtualization	or	containerization	between	you	and	the	underlying	hardware.	This
has	become	less	and	less	common	for	a	few	different	reasons.	Firstly,	deploying
directly	onto	physical	hardware	can	lead	to	lower	utilization	across	your	estate.
If	I	have	a	single	instance	of	a	microservice	running	on	a	physical	machine	and	I
use	only	half	the	CPU,	memory,	or	I/O	provided	by	the	hardware,	then	the
remaining	resources	are	wasted.	This	problem	has	led	to	the	virtualization	of
most	computing	infrastructure,	allowing	you	to	coexist	multiple	virtual	machines
on	the	same	physical	machine.	It	gives	you	much	higher	utilization	of	your
infrastructure,	which	has	some	obvious	benefits	in	terms	of	cost	effectiveness.
--- PAGE 303 ---
If	you	have	direct	access	to	physical	hardware	without	the	option	for
virtualization,	the	temptation	is	to	then	pack	multiple	microservices	on	the	same
machine—of	course,	this	violates	the	principle	we	talked	about	regarding	having
an	
isolated	execution	environment
	for	your	services.	You	could	use	tools	like
Puppet	or	Chef	to	configure	the	machine—helping	implement	infrastructure	as
code.	The	problem	is	that	if	you	are	working	only	at	the	level	of	a	single
physical	machine,	implementing	concepts	like	desired	state	management,	zero-
downtime	deployment,	and	so	on	requires	us	to	work	at	a	higher	level	of
abstraction,	using	some	sort	of	management	layer	on	top.	These	types	of	systems
are	more	commonly	used	in	conjunction	with	virtual	machines,	something	we’ll
explore	further	in	a	moment.
In	general,	directly	deploying	microservices	onto	physical	machines	is
something	I	almost	never	see	nowadays,	and	you’ll	likely	need	to	have	some
very	specific	requirements	(or	constraints)	in	your	situation	to	justify	this
approach	over	the	increased	flexibility	that	either	virtualization	or
containerization	may	bring.
Virtual	Machines
Virtualization
	has	transformed	data	centers,	by	allowing	us	to	chunk	up	existing
physical	machines	into	smaller,	virtual	machines.	Traditional	virtualization	like
VMware	or	that	used	by	the	main	cloud	providers,	managed	virtual	machine
infrastructure	(such	as	AWS’s	EC2	service)	has	yielded	huge	benefits	in
increasing	the	utilization	of	computing	infrastructure,	while	at	the	same	time
reducing	the	overhead	of	host	management.
Fundamentally,	virtualization	allows	you	to	split	up	an	underlying	machine	into
multiple	smaller	“virtual”	machines	that	act	just	like	normal	servers	to	the
software	running	inside	the	virtual	machines.	You	can	assign	portions	of	the
underlying	CPU,	memory,	I/O,	and	storage	capability	to	each	virtual	machine,
which	in	our	context	allows	you	to	cram	many	more	isolated	execution
environments	for	your	microservice	instances	onto	a	single	physical	machine.
Each	virtual	machine	contains	a	full	operating	system	and	set	of	resources	that
can	be	used	by	the	software	running	inside	the	VM.	This	ensures	that	you	have	a
very	good	degree	of	isolation	between	instances	when	each	instance	is	deployed
--- PAGE 304 ---
onto	a	separate	VM.	Each	microservice	instance	can	fully	configure	the
operating	system	in	the	VM	to	its	own	local	needs.	We	still	have	the	issue,
though,	that	if	the	underlying	hardware	running	these	virtual	machines	fails,	we
can	lose	multiple	microservice	instances.	There	are	ways	to	help	solve	that
particular	problem,	including	things	like	desired	state	management,	which	we
discussed	earlier.
Cost	of	virtualization
As	you	pack	more	and	more	virtual	machines	onto	the	same	underlying
hardware,	you	will	find	that	you	get	diminishing	returns	in	terms	of	the
computing	resources	available	to	the	VMs	themselves.	Why	is	this?
Think	of	our	physical	machine	as	a	sock	drawer.	If	we	put	lots	of	wooden
dividers	into	our	drawer,	can	we	store	more	socks	or	fewer?	The	answer	is
fewer:	the	dividers	themselves	take	up	room	too!	Our	drawer	might	be	easier	to
deal	with	and	organize,	and	perhaps	we	could	decide	to	put	T-shirts	in	one	of	the
spaces	now	rather	than	just	socks,	but	more	dividers	means	less	overall	space.
In
	the	world	of	virtualization,	we	have	a	similar	overhead	as	our	sock	drawer
dividers.	To	understand	where	this	overhead	comes	from,	let’s	look	at	how	most
virtualization	is	done.	
Figure	8-14
	shows	a	comparison	of	two	types	of
virtualization.	On	the	left,	we	see	the	various	layers	involved	in	what	is	called
type	2	virtualization
,	and	on	the	right	we	see	
container-based	virtualization
,
which	we’ll	explore	more	shortly.
Type	2	virtualization
	is	the	sort	implemented	by	AWS,	VMware,	vSphere,	Xen,
and	KVM.	(Type	1	virtualization	refers	to	technology	in	which	the	VMs	run
directly	on	hardware,	not	on	top	of	another	operating	system.)	On	our	physical
infrastructure	we	have	a	host	operating	system.	On	this	OS	we	run	something
called	a	
hypervisor
,	which	has	two	key	jobs.	First,	it	maps	resources	like	CPU
and	memory	from	the	virtual	host	to	the	physical	host.	Second,	it	acts	as	a
control	layer,	allowing	us	to	manipulate	the	virtual	machines	themselves.
--- PAGE 305 ---
Figure	8-14.	
Comparison	of	standard	type	2	virtualization	and	lightweight	containers
Inside	the	VMs,	we	get	what	look	like	completely	different	hosts.	They	can	run
their	own	operating	systems,	with	their	own	kernels.	They	can	be	considered
almost	hermetically	sealed	machines,	kept	isolated	from	the	underlying	physical
host	and	the	other	virtual	machines	by	the	hypervisor.
The	problem	with	type	2	virtualization	is	that	the	hypervisor	here	needs	to	set
aside	resources	to	do	its	job.	This	takes	away	CPU,	I/O,	and	memory	that	could
be	used	elsewhere.	The	more	hosts	the	hypervisor	manages,	the	more	resources
it	needs.	At	a	certain	point,	this	overhead	becomes	a	constraint	in	slicing	up	your
physical	infrastructure	any	further.	In	practice,	this	means	that	there	are	often
diminishing	returns	in	slicing	up	a	physical	box	into	smaller	and	smaller	parts,	as
proportionally	more	and	more	resources	go	into	the	overhead	of	the	hypervisor.
Good	for	microservices?
Coming	back	to	our	principles,	virtual	machines	do	very	well	in	terms	of
isolation,	but	at	a	cost.	Their
	ease	of	automation	can	vary	based	on	the	exact
technology	being	used—managed	VMs	on	Google	Cloud,	Azure,	or	AWS,	for
example,	are	all	easy	to	automate	via	well-supported	APIs	and	an	ecosystem	of
tools	that	build	on	these	APIs.	In	addition,	these	platforms	provide	concepts	like
autoscaling	groups,	helping	implement	desired	state	management.	Implementing
zero-downtime	deployment	is	going	to	take	more	work,	but	if	the	VM	platform
you	are	using	gives	you	a	good	API,	the	building	blocks	are	there.	The	issue	is
--- PAGE 306 ---
that	many	people	are	making	use	of	managed	VMs	provided	by	traditional
virtualization	platforms	like	the	ones	provided	by	VMware,	which,	while	they
may	theoretically	allow	for	automation,	are	typically	not	used	in	this	context.
Instead	these	platforms	tend	to	be	under	the	central	control	of	a	dedicated
operations	team,	and	the	ability	to	directly	automate	against	them	can	be
restricted	as	a	result.
Although	containers	are	proving	to	be	more	popular	in	general	for	microservice
workloads,	many	organizations	have	used	virtual	machines	for	running	large-
scale	microservice	systems,	to	great	effect.	Netflix,	one	of	the	poster	children	for
microservices,	built	out	much	of	its	microservices	on	top	of	AWS’s	managed
virtual	machines	via	EC2.	If	you	need	the	stricter	isolation	levels	that	they	can
bring,	or	you	don’t	have	the	ability	to	containerize	your	application,	VMs	can	be
a	great	choice.
Containers
Since
	the	first	edition	of	this	book,	containers	have	become	a	dominant	concept
in	server-side	software	deployment	and	for	many	are	the	de	facto	choice	for
packaging	and	running	microservice	architectures.	The	container	concept,
popularized	by	Docker,	and	allied	with	a	supporting	container	orchestration
platform	like	Kubernetes,	has	become	many	people’s	go-to	choice	for	running
microservice	architectures	at	scale.
Before	we	get	to	why	this	has	happened	and	to	the	relationship	between
containers,	Kubernetes,	and	Docker,	we	should	first	explore	what	a	container	is
exactly,	and	look	specifically	at	how	it	differs	from	virtual	machines.
Isolated,	differently
Containers
	first	emerged	on	UNIX-style	operating	systems	and	for	many	years
were	really	only	a	viable	prospect	on	those	operating	systems,	such	as	Linux.
Although	Windows	containers	are	very	much	a	thing,	it	has	been	Linux
operating	systems	that	containers	have	had	the	biggest	impact	on	so	far.
On	Linux,	processes	are	run	by	a	given	user	and	have	certain	capabilities	based
on	how	the	permissions	are	set.	Processes	can	spawn	
other	processes.	For
example,	if	I	launch	a	process	in	a	terminal,	that	process	is	generally	considered
--- PAGE 307 ---
a	child	of	the	terminal	process.	The	Linux	kernel’s	job	is	maintaining	this	tree	of
processes,	ensuring	that	only	permitted	users	can	access	the	processes.
Additionally,	the	Linux	kernel	is	capable	of	assigning	resources	to	these	different
processes—this	is	all	part	and	parcel	of	building	a	viable	multiuser	operating
system,	where	you	don’t	want	the	activities	of	one	user	to	kill	the	rest	of	the
system.
Containers	running	on	the	same	machine	make	use	of	the	same	underlying
kernel	(although	there	are	exceptions	to	this	rule	that	we’ll	explore	shortly).
Rather	than	managing	processes	directly,	you	can	think	of	a	container	as	an
abstraction	over	a	subtree	of	the	overall	system	process	tree,	with	the	kernel
doing	all	the	hard	work.	These	containers	can	have	physical	resources	allocated
to	them,	something	the	kernel	handles	for	us.	This	general	approach	has	been
around	in	many	forms,	such	as	Solaris	Zones	and	OpenVZ,	but	it	was	with	LXC
that	this	idea	made	its	way	into	the	mainstream	of	Linux	operating	systems.	The
concept	of	Linux	containers	was	further	advanced	when	Docker	provided	yet	a
higher	level	of	abstraction	over	containers,	initially	using	LXC	under	the	hood
and	then	replacing	it	altogether.
If	we	look	at	the	stack	diagram	for	a	host	running	a	container	in	
Figure	8-14
,	we
see	a	few	differences	when	comparing	it	with	type	2	virtualization.	First,	we
don’t	need	a	hypervisor.	Second,	the	container	doesn’t	seem	to	have	a	kernel—
that’s	because	it	makes	use	of	the	kernel	of	the	underlying	machine.	In	
Figure	8-
15
	we	see	this	more	clearly.	A	container	can	run	its	own	operating	system,	but
that	operating	system	makes	use	of	a	part	of	the	shared	kernel—it’s	in	this	kernel
that	the	process	tree	for	each	container	lives.	This	means	that	our	host	operating
system	could	run	Ubuntu,	and	our	containers	CentOS,	as	long	as	they	could	both
run	as	part	of	the	same	underlying	kernel.
--- PAGE 308 ---
Figure	8-15.	
Normally,	containers	on	the	same	machine	share	the	same	kernel
With	containers,	we	don’t	just	benefit	from	the	resources	saved	by	not	needing	a
hypervisor;	we	also	gain	in	terms	of	feedback.	Linux	containers	are	
much
	faster
to	provision	than	full-fat	virtual	machines.	It	isn’t	uncommon	for	a	VM	to	take
many	minutes	to	start—but	with	Linux	containers,	startup	can	take	just	a	few
seconds.	You	also	have	finer-grained	control	over	the	containers	themselves	in
terms	of	assigning	resources	to	them,	which	makes	it	much	easier	to	tweak	the
settings	to	get	the	most	out	of	the	underlying	hardware.
Due	to	the	more	lightweight	nature	of	containers,	we	can	have	many	more	of
them	running	on	the	same	hardware	than	would	be	possible	with	VMs.	By
deploying	one	service	per	container,	as	in	
Figure	8-16
,	we	get	a	degree	of
isolation	from	other	containers	(although	this	isn’t	perfect)	and	can	do	so	much
more	cost-effectively	than	would	be	possible	if	we	wanted	to	run	each	service	in
its	own	VM.	Coming	back	to	our	sock	drawer	analogy	from	earlier,	with
containers	the	sock	drawer	dividers	are	much	thinner	than	they	are	for	VMs,
meaning	a	higher	proportion	of	the	sock	drawer	gets	used	for	socks.
--- PAGE 309 ---
Figure	8-16.	
Running	services	in	separate	containers
Containers
	can	be	used	well	with	full-fat	virtualization	too;	in	fact,	this	is
common.	I’ve	seen	more	than	one	project	provision	a	large	AWS	EC2	instance
and	run	multiple	containers	on	it	to	get	the	best	of	both	worlds:	an	on-demand
ephemeral	compute	platform	in	the	form	of	EC2,	coupled	with	highly	flexible
and	fast	containers	running	on	top	of	it.
--- PAGE 310 ---
Not	perfect
Linux	containers
	aren’t	without	some	problems,	however.	Imagine	I	have	lots	of
microservices	running	in	their	own	containers	on	a	host.	How	does	the	outside
world	see	them?	You	need	some	way	to	route	the	outside	world	through	to	the
underlying	containers,	something	many	of	the	hypervisors	do	for	you	with
normal	virtualization.	With	earlier	technology	like	LXC,	this	was	something	you
had	to	handle	yourself—this	is	one	area	where	Docker’s	take	on	containers	has
helped	hugely.
Another	point	to	bear	in	mind	is	that	these	containers	can	be	considered	isolated
from	a	resource	point	of	view—I	can	allocate	ring-fenced	sets	of	CPU,	memory,
and	so	on	to	each	container—but	this	is	not	necessarily	the	same	degree	of
isolation	as	you	get	from	virtual	machines,	or	for	that	matter	by	having	separate
physical	machines.	Early	on,	there	were	a	number	of	documented	and	known
ways	in	which	a	process	from	one	container	could	bust	out	and	interact	with
other	containers	or	the	underlying	host.
A	huge	amount	of	work	has	gone	into	resolving	these	issues,	and	the	container
orchestration	systems	and	underlying	container	runtimes	have	done	a	good	job
of	examining	how	to	better	run	container	workloads	so	this	isolation	is
improved,	but	you	will	need	to	give	due	thought	to	the	sorts	of	workloads	you
want	to	run.	My	own	guidance	here	is	that	in	general	you	should	view	containers
as	a	great	way	of	isolating	execution	of	trusted	software.	If	you	are	running	code
written	by	others	and	are	concerned	about	a	malicious	party	trying	to	bypass
container-level	isolation,	then	you’ll	want	to	do	some	deeper	examination
yourself	regarding	the	current	state	of	the	art	for	handling	such	situations—some
of	which	we’ll	touch	on	in	a	moment.
Windows	containers
Historically,	Windows
	users	would	look	longingly	at	their	Linux-using
contemporaries,	as	containers	were	something	denied	to	the	Windows	operating
system.	Over	the	last	few	years,	however,	this	has	changed,	with	containers	now
being	a	fully	supported	concept.	The	delay	was	really	about	the	underlying
Windows	operating	system	and	kernel	supporting	the	same	kinds	of	capabilities
as	existed	in	the	land	of	Linux	to	make	containers	work.	It	was	with	the	delivery
of	Windows	Server	2016	that	a	lot	of	this	changed,	and	since	then	Windows
--- PAGE 311 ---
containers	have	continued	to	evolve.
One	of	the	initial	stumbling	blocks	in	the	adoption	of	Windows	containers	has
been	the	size	of	the	Windows	operating	system	itself.	Remember	that	you	need
to	run	an	operating	system	inside	each	container,	so	when	downloading	a
container	image,	you’re	also	downloading	an	operating	system.	Windows,
though,	is	
big
—so	big	that	it	made	containers	very	heavy,	not	just	in	terms	of	the
size	of	the	images	but	also	in	terms	of	the	resources	required	to	run	them.
Microsoft	reacted	to	this	by	creating	a	cut-down	operating	system	called
Windows	Nano	Server.	The	idea	is	that	Nano	Server	should	have	a	small-
footprint	OS	and	be	capable	of	running	things	like	microservice	instances.
Alongside	this,	Microsoft	also	support	a	larger	Windows	Server	Core,	which	is
there	to	support	running	legacy	Windows	applications	as	containers.	The	issue	is
that	these	things	are	still	pretty	big	when	compared	to	their	Linux	equivalents—
early	versions	of	Nano	Server	would	still	be	well	over	1	GB	in	size,	compared	to
small-footprint	Linux	operating	systems	like	Alpine	that	would	take	up	only	a
few	megabytes.
While	Microsoft	has	continued	to	try	and	reduce	the	size	of	Nano	Server,	this
size	disparity	still	exists.	In	practice,	though,	due	to	the	way	that	common	layers
across	container	images	can	be	cached,	this	may	not	be	a	massive	issue.
Of	special	interest	in	the	world	of	Windows	containers	is	the	fact	that	they
support	different	levels	of	isolation.	A	standard	Windows	container	uses	process
isolation,	much	like	its	Linux	counterparts.	With	process	isolation,	each
container	runs	in	part	of	the	same	underlying	kernel,	which	manages	the
isolation	between	the	containers.	With	Windows	containers,	you	also	have	the
option	of	providing	more	isolation	by	running	containers	inside	their	own	Hyper-
V	VM.	This	gives	you	something	closer	to	the	isolation	level	of	full
virtualization,	but	the	nice	thing	is	that	you	can	choose	between	Hyper-V	or
process	isolation	when	you	launch	the	container—the	image	doesn’t	need	to
change.
Having	flexibility	about	running	images	in	different	types	of	isolation	can	have
its	benefits.	In	some	situations,	your	threat	model	may	dictate	that	you	want
stronger	isolation	between	your	running	processes	than	simple	process-level
isolation.	For	example,	you	might	be	running	“untrusted”	third-party	code
alongside	your	own	processes.	In	such	a	situation,	being	able	to	run	those
--- PAGE 312 ---
container	workloads	as	Hyper-V	containers	is	very	useful.	Note,	of	course,	that
Hyper-V	isolation	is	likely	to	have	
an	impact
	in	terms	of	spin-up	time	and	a
runtime	cost	closer	to	that	of	normal	
virtualization
.
BLURRED	LINES
There
	is	a	growing	trend	of	people	looking	for	solutions	that	provide	the
stronger	isolation	provided	by	VMs	while	having	the	lightweight	nature	of
containers.	Examples	include	Microsoft’s	Hyper-V	containers,	which	allow
for	separate	kernels,	and	
Firecracker
,	which	is	confusingly	called	a	kernel-
based	VM.	Firecracker	has	proved	popular	as	an	implementation	detail	of
service	offerings	like	AWS	Lambda,	where	there	is	a	need	to	fully	isolate
workloads	from	different	customers	while	still	trying	to	keep	spin-up	time
down	and	reduce	the	operational	footprint	of	the	workloads.
Docker
Containers
	were	in	limited	use	before	the	emergence	of	Docker	pushed	the
concept	mainstream.	The	Docker	toolchain	handles	much	of	the	work	around
containers.	Docker	manages	the	container	provisioning,	handles	some	of	the
networking	problems	for	you,	and	even	provides	its	own	registry	concept	that
allows	you	to	store	Docker	applications.	Before	Docker,	we	didn’t	have	the
concept	of	an	“image”	for	containers—this	aspect,	along	with	a	much	nicer	set
of	tools	for	working	with	containers,	helped	containers	become	much	easier	to
use.
The	Docker	image	abstraction	is	a	useful	one	for	us,	as	the	details	of	how	our
microservice	is	implemented	are	hidden.	We	have	the	builds	for	our
microservice	create	a	Docker	image	as	a	build	artifact	and	store	the	image	in	the
Docker	registry,	and	away	we	go.	When	you	launch	an	instance	of	a	Docker
image,	you	have	a	generic	set	of	tools	for	managing	that	instance,	no	matter	the
underlying	technology	used—microservices	written	in	Go,	Python,	NodeJS,	or
whatever	can	all	be	treated	the	same.
Docker	can	also	alleviate	some	of	the	downsides	of	running	lots	of	services
locally	for	dev	and	test	purposes.	Previously,	I	might	have	used	a	tool	like
Vagrant	that	allows	me	to	host	multiple	independent	VMs	on	my	development
--- PAGE 313 ---
machine.	This	would	allow	me	to	have	a	production-like	VM	running	my	service
instances	locally.	This	was	a	pretty	heavyweight	approach,	though,	and	I’d	be
limited	in	how	many	VMs	I	could	run.	With	Docker,	it’s	easy	just	to	run	Docker
directly	on	my	developer	machine,	probably	using	
Docker	Desktop
.	Now	I	can
just	build	a	Docker	image	for	my	microservice	instance,	or	pull	down	a	prebuilt
image,	and	run	it	locally.	These	Docker	images	can	(and	should)	be	identical	to
the	container	image	that	I	will	eventually	run	in	production.
When	Docker	first	emerged,	its	scope	was	limited	to	managing	containers	on	one
machine.	This	was	of	limited	use—what	if	you	wanted	to	manage	containers
across	multiple	machines?	This	is	something	that	is	essential	if	you	want	to
maintain	system	health,	if	you	have	a	machine	die	on	you,	or	if	you	just	want	to
run	enough	containers	to	handle	the	system’s	load.	Docker	came	out	with	two
totally	different	products	of	its	own	to	solve	this	problem,	confusingly	called
“Docker	Swarm”	and	“Docker	Swarm	Mode”—who	said	naming	stuff	was	hard
again?	Really,	though,	when	it	comes	to	managing	lots	of	containers	across
many	machines,	Kubernetes	is	king	here,	even	
if	you	might
	use	the	Docker
toolchain	for	building	and	managing	individual	
containers
.
Fitness	for	microservices
Containers
	as	a	concept	work	wonderfully	well	for	microservices,	and	Docker
made	containers	significantly	more	viable	as	a	concept.	We	get	our	isolation	but
at	a	manageable	cost.	We	also	hide	underlying	technology,	allowing	us	to	mix
different	tech	stacks.	When	it	comes	to	implementing	concepts	like	desired	state
management,	though,	we’ll	need	something	like	Kubernetes	to	handle	it	for	us.
Kubernetes	is	important	enough	to	warrant	a	more	detailed	discussion,	so	we’ll
come	back	to	it	later	in	the	chapter.	But	for	now	just	think	of	it	as	a	way	of
managing	containers	across	lots	of	machines,	which	is	enough	for	the	moment.
Application	Containers
If
	you’re	familiar	with	deploying	.NET	applications	behind	IIS	or	Java
applications	into	something	like	Weblogic	or	Tomcat,	you	will	be	well
acquainted	with	the	model	in	which	multiple	distinct	services	or	applications	sit
inside	a	single	application	container,	which	in	turn	sits	on	a	single	host,	as	we
see	in	
Figure	8-17
.	The	idea	is	that	the	application	container	your	services	live	in
--- PAGE 314 ---
gives	you	benefits	in	terms	of	improved	manageability,	such	as	clustering
support	to	handle	grouping	multiple	instances	together,	monitoring	tools,	and	the
like.
Figure	8-17.	
Multiple	microservices	per	application	container
This	setup	can	also	yield	benefits	in	terms	of	reducing	overhead	of	language
runtimes.	Consider	running	five	Java	services	in	a	single	Java	servlet	container.	I
have	the	overhead	of	only	a	single	JVM.	Compare	this	with	running	five
independent	JVMs	on	the	same	host	when	using	containers.	That	said,	I	still	feel
--- PAGE 315 ---
that	these	application	containers	have	enough	downsides	that	you	should
challenge	yourself	to	see	whether	they	are	really	required.
First	among	the	downsides	is	that	they	inevitably	constrain	technology	choice.
You	have	to	buy	into	a	technology	stack.	This	can	limit	not	only	the	technology
choices	for	the	implementation	of	the	service	itself	but	also	the	options	you	have
in	terms	of	automation	and	management	of	your	systems.	As	we’ll	discuss
shortly,	one	of	the	ways	we	can	address	the	overhead	of	managing	multiple	hosts
is	with	automation,	and	so	constraining	our	options	for	resolving	this	may	well
be	doubly	damaging.
I	would	also	question	some	of	the	value	of	the	features	provided	by	these
application	containers.	Many	of	them	tout	the	ability	to	manage	clusters	to
support	shared	in-memory	session	state,	something	we	absolutely	want	to	avoid
in	any	case	due	to	the	challenges	this	creates	when	scaling	our	services.	And	the
monitoring	capabilities	they	provide	won’t	be	sufficient	when	we	consider	the
sorts	of	joined-up	monitoring	we	want	to	do	in	a	microservices	world,	as	we’ll
see	in	
Chapter	10
.	Many	of	them	also	have	quite	slow	spin-up	times,	impacting
developer	feedback	cycles.
There	are	other	sets	of	problems	too.	Attempting	to	do	proper	life-cycle
management	of	applications	on	top	of	platforms	like	the	JVM	can	be
problematic	and	more	complex	than	simply	restarting	a	JVM.	Analyzing
resource	use	and	threads	is	also	much	more	complex,	as	you	have	multiple
applications	sharing	the	same	process.	And	remember,	even	if	you	do	get	value
from	technology-specific	containers,	they	aren’t	free.	Aside	from	the	fact	that
many	of	them	are	commercial	and	thus	have	a	cost	implication,	they	add	a
resource	overhead	in	and	of	themselves.
Ultimately,	this	approach	is	again	an	attempt	to	optimize	for	scarcity	of	resources
that	simply	may	not	hold	up	anymore.	Whether	or	not	you	decide	to	have
multiple	services	per	host	as	a	deployment	model,	I	would	strongly	suggest
looking	at	self-contained	deployable	microservices	as	artifacts,	with	each
microservice	instance	running	as	its	own	isolated	process.
Fundamentally,	the	lack	of	isolation	this	model	provides	is	one	of	the	main
reasons	why	this	model	is	increasingly	rare	for	people	adopting	microservice
architectures.
--- PAGE 316 ---
Platform	as	a	Service	(PaaS)
When
	using	Platform	as	a	Service	(PaaS),	you	are	working	at	a	higher-level
abstraction	than	a	single	host.	Some	of	these	platforms	rely	on	taking	a
technology-specific	artifact,	such	as	a	Java	WAR	file	or	Ruby	gem,	and
automatically	provisioning	and	running	it	for	you.	Some	of	these	platforms	will
transparently	attempt	to	handle	scaling	the	system	up	and	down	for	you;	others
will	allow	you	some	control	over	how	many	nodes	your	service	might	run	on,
but	they	handle	the	rest.
As	was	the	case	when	I	wrote	the	first	edition,	most	of	the	best,	most	polished
PaaS	solutions	are	hosted.	
Heroku
	set	the	benchmark	for	delivering	a	developer-
friendly	interface	and	arguably	has	remained	the	gold	standard	for	PaaS,	despite
limited	growth	in	terms	of	its	featureset	over	the	last	few	years.	Platforms	like
Heroku	don’t	just	run	your	application	instance;	they	also	provide	capabilities
such	as	running	database	instances	for	you—something	that	can	be	very	painful
to	do	yourself.
When	PaaS	solutions	work	well,	they	work	very	well	indeed.	However,	when
they	don’t	quite	work	for	you,	you	often	don’t	have	much	control	in	terms	of
getting	under	the	hood	to	fix	things.	This	is	part	of	the	trade-off	you	make.	I
would	say	that	in	my	experience	the	smarter	the	PaaS	solutions	try	to	be,	the
more	they	go	wrong.	I’ve	used	more	than	one	PaaS	that	attempts	to	autoscale
based	on	application	use,	but	does	it	badly.	Invariably	the	heuristics	that	drive
these	smarts	tend	to	be	tailored	for	the	average	application	rather	than	your
specific	use	case.	The	more	nonstandard	your	application,	the	more	likely	it	is
that	it	might	not	play	nicely	with	a	PaaS.
As	the	good	PaaS	solutions	handle	so	much	for	you,	they	can	be	an	excellent
way	of	handling	the	increased	overhead	we	get	with	having	many	more	moving
parts.	That	said,	I’m	still	not	sure	that	we	have	all	the	models	right	in	this	space
yet,	and	the	limited	self-hosted	options	mean	that	this	approach	might	not	work
for	you.	When	I	wrote	the	first	edition,	I	was	hopeful	that	we’d	see	more	growth
in	this	space,	but	it	hasn’t	happened	in	the	way	that	I	expected.	Instead,	I	think
the	growth	of
	serverless	products	offered	primarily	by	the	public	cloud	providers
has	started	to	fill	this	need.	Rather	than	offering	black-box	platforms	for	hosting
an	application,	they	instead	provide	turnkey	managed	solutions	for	things	like
message	brokers,	databases,	storage,	and	such	that	allow	us	to	mix	and	match	the
--- PAGE 317 ---
parts	we	like	to	build	what	we	need.	It	is	against	this	backdrop	that	Function	as	a
Service,	a	specific	type	of	serverless	product,	has	been	getting	a	lot	of	traction.
Assessing	the	suitability	of	PaaS	offerings	for	microservices	is	difficult,	as	they
come	in	many	shapes	and	sizes.	Heroku	looks	quite	different	from	Netlify,	for
example,	but	both	could	work	for	you	as	a	deployment	platform	for	your
microservices,	depending	on	the	nature	of	your	application.
Function	as	a	Service	(FaaS)
In
	the	last	few	years,	the	only	technology	to	get	even	close	to	Kubernetes	in
terms	of	generating	hype	(at	least	in	the	context	of	microservices)	is	serverless.
Serverless	is	actually	an	umbrella	term	for	a	host	of	different	technologies
where,	from	the	point	of	view	of	the	person	using	them,	the	underlying
computers	don’t	matter.	The	detail	of	managing	and	configuring	machines	is
taken	away	from	you.	In	the	
words	of	Ken	Fromm
	(who	as	far	as	I	can	tell
coined	the	term	
serverless
):
The	phrase	“serverless”	doesn’t	mean	servers	are	no	longer	involved.	It
simply	means	that	developers	no	longer	have	to	think	that	much	about	them.
Computing	resources	get	used	as	services	without	having	to	manage	around
physical	capacities	or	limits.	Service	providers	increasingly	take	on	the
responsibility	of	managing	servers,	data	stores	and	other	infrastructure
resources.	Developers	could	set	up	their	own	open	source	solutions,	but	that
means	they	have	to	manage	the	servers	and	the	queues	and	the	loads.
—
Ken	Fromm,	“Why	the	Future	of	Software	and	Apps	Is
Serverless”
Function	as	a	Service,	or	FaaS,	has	become	such	a	major	part	of	serverless	that
for	many	the	two	terms	are	interchangeable.	This	is	unfortunate,	as	it	overlooks
the	importance	of	other	serverless	products	like	databases,	queues,	storage
solutions,	and	the	like.	Nonetheless,	it	speaks	to	the	excitement	that	FaaS	has
generated	that	it’s	dominated	the	discussion.
It	was	AWS’s	Lambda	product,	launched	in	2014,	that	ignited	the	excitement
around	FaaS.	At	one	level,	the	concept	is	delightfully	simple.	You	deploy	some
code	(a	“function”).	That	code	is	dormant,	until	something	happens	to	trigger
that	code.	You’re	in	charge	of	deciding	what	that	trigger	might	be—it	could	be	a
--- PAGE 318 ---
file	arriving	in	a	certain	location,	an	item	appearing	on	a	message	queue,	a	call
coming	in	via	HTTP,	or	something	else.
When	your	function	triggers,	it	runs,	and	when	it	finishes,	it	shuts	down.	The
underlying	platform	handles	spinning	these	functions	up	or	down	on	demand	and
will	handle	concurrent	executions	of	your	functions	so	that	you	can	have
multiple	copies	running	at	once	where	appropriate.
The	benefits	here	are	numerous.	Code	that	isn’t	running	isn’t	costing	you	money
—you	pay	only	for	what	you	use.	This	can	make	FaaS	a	great	option	for
situations	in	which	you	have	low	or	unpredictable	load.	The	underlying	platform
handles	spinning	the	functions	up	and	down	for	you,	giving	you	some	degree	of
implicit	high	availability	and	robustness	without	you	having	to	do	any	work.
Fundamentally,	the	use	of	a	FaaS	platform,	as	with	many	of	the	other	serverless
offerings,	allows	you	to	drastically	reduce	the	amount	of	operational	overhead
you	need	to	worry	about.
Limitations
Under
	the	hood,	all	the	FaaS	implementations	I’m	aware	of	make	use	of	some
sort	of	container	technology.	This	is	hidden	from	you—typically	you	don’t	have
to	worry	about	building	a	container	that	will	be	run,	you	just	provide	some
packaged	form	of	the	code.	This	means,	though,	that	you	lack	a	degree	of	control
over	what	exactly	can	be	run;	as	a	result	you	need	the	FaaS	provider	to	support
your	language	of	choice.	Azure	Functions
	have	done	the	best	here	in	terms	of	the
major	cloud	vendors,	supporting	a	wide	variety	of	different	runtimes,	whereas
Google	Cloud’s	own	Cloud	Functions	offering	supports	very	few	languages	by
comparison	(at	the	time	of	writing,	Google	supports	only	Go,	some	Node
versions,	and	Python).	It’s	worth	noting	that	AWS	does	now	allow	you	to	define
your	own	custom	runtime	for	your	functions,	theoretically	enabling	you	to
implement	support	for	languages	that	aren’t	provided	out	of	the	box,	although
this	then	becomes	another	piece	of	operational	overhead	you	have	to	maintain.
This	lack	of	control	over	the	underlying	runtime	also	extends	to	the	lack	of
control	over	the	resources	given	to	each	function	invocation.	Across	Google
Cloud,	Azure,	and	AWS,	you	can	only	control	the	memory	given	to	each
function.	This	in	turn	seems	to	imply	that	a	certain	amount	of	CPU	and	I/O	is
given	to	your	function	runtime,	but	you	can’t	control	those	aspects	directly.	This
--- PAGE 319 ---
may	mean	that	you	end	up	having	to	give	more	memory	to	a	function	even	if	it
doesn’t	need	it	just	to	get	the	CPU	you	need.	Ultimately,	if	you	feel	that	you
need	to	do	a	lot	of	fine	tuning	around	resources	available	to	your	functions,	then
I	feel	that,	at	this	stage	at	least,	FaaS	is	probably	not	a	great	option	for	you.
Another	limitation	to	be	aware	of	is	that	function	invocations	can	provide	limits
in	terms	of	how	long	they	can	run	for.	Google	Cloud	functions,	for	example,	are
currently	capped	at	9	minutes	of	execution,	while	AWS	Lambda	functions	can
run	for	up	to	15	minutes.	Azure	functions	can	run	forever	if	you	want
(depending	on	the	type	of	plan	you	are	on).	Personally,	I	think	if	you	have
functions	running	for	long	periods	of	time,	this	probably	points	to	the	sort	of
problem	that	functions	aren’t	a	good	fit	for.
Finally,	most	function	invocations	are	considered	to	be	stateless.	Conceptually,
this	means	that	a	function	cannot	access	state	left	by	a	previous	function
invocation	unless	that	state	is	stored	elsewhere	(for	example,	in	a	database).	This
has	made	it	hard	to	have	multiple	functions	chained	together—consider	one
function	orchestrating	a	series	of	calls	to	other	downstream	functions.	A	notable
exception	is	
Azure	Durable	Functions
,	which	solves	this	problem	in	a	really
interesting	way.	Durable	Functions	supports	the	ability	to	suspend	the	state	of	a
given	function	and	allow	it	to	restart	where	the	invocation	left	off—this	is	all
handled	transparently	through	the	use	of	reactive	extensions.	This	is	a	solution
that	I	think	is	significantly	more	developer	friendly	than	AWS’s	own	Step
Functions,	which	ties	together	multiple	functions	using	JSON-based
configuration.
WEBASSEMBLY	(WASM)
Wasm
	is	an	official	standard	that	was	originally	defined	to	give	developers	a
way	of	running	sandboxed	programs	written	in	a	variety	of	programming
languages	on	client	browsers.	Defining	both	a	packaging	format	and	a
runtime	environment,	the	goal	of	Wasm	is	to	allow	arbitrary	code	to	run	in	a
safe	and	efficient	manner	on	client	devices.	This	can	allow	for	far	more
sophisticated	client-side	applications	to	be	created	when	using	normal	web
browsers.	As	a	concrete	example,	eBay	used	Wasm	to	deliver	barcode
scanner	software,	the	core	of	which	was	written	in	C++	and	which	was
previously	available	only	to	native	Android	or	iOS	applications,	to	the	web.
2
--- PAGE 320 ---
The	WebAssembly	System	Interface	(WASI)	was	defined	as	a	way	to	let
Wasm	move	from	the	browser	and	work	anywhere	a	compatible	WASI
implementation	can	be	found.	An	example	of	this	is	the	ability	to	run	Wasm
on	content	delivery	networks	like	Fastly	or	Cloudflare.
Due	to	its	lightweight	nature	and	the	strong	sandboxing	concepts	built	in	to
its	core	specification,	Wasm	has	the	potential	to	challenge	the	use	of
containers	as	the	go-to	deployment	format	for	server-side	applications.	In	the
short	term,	what	is	holding	it	back	is	likely	the	server-side	platforms
available	to	run	Wasm.	While	you	can	theoretically	run	Wasm	on
Kubernetes,	for	example,	you	end	up	embedding	Wasm	inside	containers,
which	arguably	ends	up	being	somewhat	pointless,	as	you’re	running	a	more
lightweight	deployment	inside	a	(comparatively)	more	heavyweight
container.
A	server-side	deployment	platform	with	native	support	for	WASI	would
likely	be	needed	to	get	the	most	out	of	Wasm’s	potential.	Theoretically	at
least,	a	scheduler	like	Nomad	would	be	better	placed	to	support	Wasm,	as	it
supports	a	pluggable	driver	model.	Time	will	tell!
Challenges
Aside	from	the	limitations	we’ve	just	looked	at,	there	are	some	other	challenges
you	may	experience	when	using	FaaS.
Firstly,	it’s	important	to	address	a	concern	that	is	often	raised	with	FaaS,	and	that
is	the	notion	of	spin-up	time.	Conceptually,	functions	are	not	running	at	all
unless	they	are	needed.	This	means	they	have	to	be	launched	to	serve	an
incoming	request.	Now,	for	some	runtimes,	it	takes	a	long	time	to	spin	up	a	new
version	of	the	runtime—often	called	a	“cold	start”	time.	JVM	and	.NET	runtimes
suffer	a	lot	from	this,	so	a	cold	start	time	for	functions	using	these	runtimes	can
often	be	significant.
In
	reality,	though,	these	runtimes	rarely	cold	start.	On	AWS	at	least,	the	runtimes
are	kept	“warm,”	so	that	requests	that	come	in	are	served	by	already	launched
and	running	instances.	This	happens	to	such	an	extent	that	it	can	be	difficult	to
gauge	the	impact	of	a	“cold	start”	nowadays	due	to	the	optimizations	being	done
under	the	hood	by	the	FaaS	providers.	Nonetheless,	if	this	is	a	concern,	sticking
--- PAGE 321 ---
to	languages	whose	runtimes	have	fast	spin-up	times	(Go,	Python,	Node,	and
Ruby	come	to	mind)	can	sidestep	this	issue	effectively.
Finally,	the	dynamic	scaling	aspect	of	functions	can	actually	end	up	being	an
issue.	Functions	are	launched	when	triggered.	All	the	platforms	I’ve	used	have	a
hard	limit	on	the	maximum	number	of	concurrent	function	invocations,	which	is
something	you	might	have	to	take	careful	note	of.	I’ve	spoken	to	more	than	one
team	that	has	had	the	issue	of	functions	scaling	up	and	overwhelming	other	parts
of	its	infrastructure	that	didn’t	have	the	same	scaling	properties.	Steve	Faulkner
from	Bustle	
shared
	one	such	example,	where	scaling	functions	overloaded
Bustle’s	Redis	infrastructure,	causing	production	issues.	If	one	part	of	your
system	can	dynamically	scale	but	the	other	parts	of	your	system	don’t,	then	you
might	find	that	this	mismatch	can	cause	significant	headaches.
Mapping	to	microservices
So	far	in	our	discussions	of	the	various	deployment	options,	the	mapping	from	a
microservice	instance	to	a	deployment	mechanism	has	been	pretty
straightforward.	A	single	microservice	instance	could	be	deployed	onto	a	virtual
machine,	packaged	as	a	single	container,	or	even	dropped	onto	an	application
container	like	Tomcat	or	IIS.	With	FaaS,	things	get	a	bit	more	confused.
Function	per	microservice
Now	obviously	a	single	microservice	instance	can	be	deployed	as	a	single
function,	as	shown	in	
Figure	8-18
.	This	is	probably	a	sensible	place	to	start.	This
keeps	the	concept	of	a	microservice	instance	as	a	unit	of	deployment,	which	is
the	model	we’ve	been	exploring	the	most	so	far.
--- PAGE 322 ---
Figure	8-18.	
Our	
Expenses
	service	is	implemented	as	a	single	function
When	invoked,	the	FaaS	platform	will	trigger	a	single	entry	point	in	your
deployed	function.	This	means	that	if	you’re	going	to	have	a	single	function
deployment	for	your	entire	service,	you’ll	need	to	have	some	way	of	dispatching
from	that	entry	point	to	the	different	pieces	of	functionality	in	your	microservice.
If	you	were	implementing	the	
Expenses
	service	as	a	REST-based	microservice,
you	might	have	various	resources	exposed,	like	
/receipt
,	
/claim
,	or	
/report
.
With	this	model,	a	request	for	any	of	these	resources	would	come	in	through	this
same	entry	point,	so	you’d	need	to	direct	the	inbound	call	to	the	appropriate
piece	of	functionality	based	on	the	inbound	request	path.
Function	per	aggregate
So	how	would	we	break	up	a	microservice	instance	into	smaller	functions?	If
you’re	making	use	of	domain-driven	design,	you	may	already	have	explicitly
modeled	your	aggregates	(a	collection	of	objects	that	are	managed	as	a	single
entity,	typically	referring	to	real-world	concepts).	If	your	microservice	instance
handles	multiple	aggregates,	one	model	that	makes	sense	to	me	is	to	break	out	a
function	for	each	aggregate,	as	shown	in	
Figure	8-19
.	This	ensures	that	all	the
--- PAGE 323 ---
logic	for	a	single	aggregate	is	self-contained	inside	the	function,	making	it	easier
to	ensure	a	consistent	implementation	of	the	life-cycle	management	of	the
aggregate.
Figure	8-19.	
An	
Expenses
	service	being	deployed	as	multiple	functions,	each	one	handling	a	different
aggregate
With	this	model,	our	microservice	instance	no	longer	maps	to	a	single	unit	of
deployment.	Instead,	our	microservice	is	now	more	of	a	logical	concept
consisting	of	multiple	different	functions	that	can	theoretically	be	deployed
independently	of	each	other.
A	few	caveats	here.	Firstly,	I	would	strongly	urge	you	to	maintain	a	coarser-
grained	external	interface.	To	upstream	consumers,	they	are	still	talking	to	the
Expenses
	service—they	are	unaware	that	requests	get	mapped	to	smaller-scoped
aggregates.	This	ensures	that	should	you	change	your	mind	and	want	to
recombine	things	or	even	restructure	the	aggregate	model,	you	won’t	impact
upstream	consumers.
The	second	issue	relates	to	data.	Should	these	aggregates	continue	to	use	a
--- PAGE 324 ---
shared	database?	On	this	issue,	I	am	somewhat	relaxed.	Assuming	that	the	same
team	manages	all	these	functions,	and	that	conceptually	it	remains	a	single
“service,”	I’d	be	OK	with	them	still	using	the	same	database,	as	
Figure	8-20
shows.
Over	time,	though,	if	the	needs	of	each	aggregate	function	diverge,	I’d	be
inclined	to	look	to	separate	out	their	data	usage,	as	seen	in	
Figure	8-21
,
especially	if	you	start	to	see	coupling	in	the	data	tier	impair	your	ability	to
change	them	easily.	At	this	stage,	you	could	argue	that	these	functions	would
now	be	microservices	in	their	own	
right—although
	as	I’ve	just	explained,	there
may	be	value	in	still	representing	them	as	a	single	microservice	to	upstream
consumers.
Figure	8-20.	
Different	functions	using	the	same	database,	as	they	are	all	logically	part	of	the	same
microservice	and	are	managed	by	the	same	team
--- PAGE 325 ---
Figure	8-21.	
Each	function	using	its	own	database
This	mapping	from	a	single	microservice	to	multiple	finer-grained	deployable
units	warps	our	previous	definition	of	a	microservice	somewhat.	We	normally
consider	a	microservice	as	being	an	independently	deployable	unit—now	one
microservice	is	made	up	of	
multiple	different
	independently	deployable	units.
Conceptually,	in	this	example,	the	microservice	moves	toward	being	more	of	a
logical	than	a	physical	
concept.
Get	even	more	fine-grained
If	you	wanted	to	go	even	smaller,	there	is	a	temptation	to	break	down	your
functions	per	aggregate	into	smaller	pieces.	I	am	much	more	cautious	here.
Aside	from	the	explosion	of	functions	this	will	likely	create,	it	also	violates	one
of	the	core	principles	of	an	aggregate—that	we	want	to	treat	it	as	a	single	unit	to
ensure	we	can	better	manage	the	integrity	of	the	aggregate	itself.
I’ve	previously	entertained	the	idea	of	making	each	state	transition	of	an
aggregate	its	own	function,	but	I’ve	backed	out	of	this	idea	due	to	the	problems
associated	with	inconsistency.	When	you	have	different	independently
deployable	things,	each	managing	a	different	part	of	an	overall	state	transition,
ensuring	things	are	done	properly	gets	really	quite	difficult.	It	puts	us	into	the
space	of	sagas,	which	we	discussed	in	
Chapter	6
.	When	implementing	complex
business	processes,	concepts	like	sagas	are	important,	and	the	work	is	justifiable.
I	struggle,	though,	to	see	the	value	in	adding	this	complexity	at	the	level	of
--- PAGE 326 ---
managing	a	single	aggregate	that	could	easily	be	handled	by	a	single	function.
The	way	forward
I	remain	convinced	that	the	future	for	most	developers	is	using	a	platform	that
hides	much	of	the	underlying	detail	from	them.	For	many	years,	Heroku	was	the
closest	thing	I	could	point	to	in	terms	of	something	that	found	the	right	balance,
but	now	we	have	FaaS	and	the	wider	ecosystem	of	turnkey	serverless	offerings
that	chart	a	different	path.
There	are	still	issues	to	be	ironed	out	with	FaaS,	but	I	feel	that,	while	the	current
crop	of	offerings	still	need	to	change	to	resolve	the	issues	with	them,	this	is	the
sort	of	platform	that	most	developers	will	end	up	using.	Not	all	applications	will
fit	neatly	into	a	FaaS	ecosystem	given	the	constraints,	but	for	those	that	do,
people	are	already	seeing	significant	benefits.	With	more	and	more	work	going
into	Kubernetes-backed	FaaS	offerings,	people	who	are	unable	to	make	direct
use	of	the	FaaS	solutions	provided	by	the	main	cloud	providers	will	increasingly
be	able	to	take	advantage	of	this	new	way	of	working.
So,	while	FaS	may	not	work	for	everything,	it’s	certainly	something	I	urge
people	to	explore.	And	for	my	clients	who	are	looking	at	moving	to	cloud-based
Kubernetes	solutions,	I’ve	been	urging	many	of	them	to	explore	FaaS	first,	as	it
may	give	them	everything	they	need	while	hiding	significant	complexity	and
offloading	a	lot	of	work.
I’m
	seeing	more	organizations	making	use	of	FaaS	as	part	of	a	wider	solution,
picking	FaaS	for	specific	use	cases	where	it	fits	well.	A	good	example	would	be
the	BBC,	which	makes	use	of	Lambda	functions	as	part	of	its	core	technology
stack	that	provides	the	BBC	News	website.	The	overall	system	uses	a	mix	of
Lambda	and	EC2	instances—with	the	EC2	instances	often	being	used	in
situations	in	which	Lambda	function	invocations	would	be	too	expensive.
Which	Deployment	Option	Is	Right	for	You?
Yikes.	So
	we	have	a	lot	of	options,	right?	And	I	probably	haven’t	helped	too
much	by	going	out	of	my	way	to	share	loads	of	pros	and	cons	for	each	approach.
If	you’ve	gotten	this	far,	you	might	be	a	bit	bewildered	about	what	you	should
do.
3
--- PAGE 327 ---
TIP
Well,	before	I	go	any	further,	I	really	hope	that	it	goes	without	saying	that	if	what	you	are
currently	doing	works	for	you,	then	
keep	doing	it!
	Don’t	let	fashion	dictate	your	technical
decisions.
If	you	think	you	do	need	to	change	how	you	deploy	microservices,	then	let	me
try	and	distill	down	much	of	what	we’ve	already	discussed	and	come	up	with
some	useful	guidance.
Revisiting	our	principles	of	microservice	deployment,	one	of	the	most	important
aspects	we	focused	on	was	that	of	ensuring	isolation	of	our	microservices.	But
just	using	that	as	a	guiding	principle	might	guide	us	toward	using	dedicated
physical	machines	for	each	microservice	instance!	That	of	course	would	likely
be	very	expensive,	and	as	we’ve	already	discussed,	there	are	some	very	powerful
tools	that	we	wouldn’t	be	able	to	use	if	we	went	down	this	route.
Trade-offs	abound	here.	Balancing	cost	against	ease	of	use,	isolation,
familiarity…it	can	become	overwhelming.	So	let’s	review	a	set	of	rules	I	like	to
call	Sam’s	Really	Basic	Rules	of	Thumb	for	Working	Out	Where	to	Deploy
Stuff:
1
.	
If	it	ain’t	broke,	don’t	fix	it.
2
.	
Give	up	as	much	control	as	you	feel	happy	with,	and	then	give	away
just	a	little	bit	more.	If	you	can	offload	all	your	work	to	a	good	PaaS
like	Heroku	(or	a	FaaS	platform),	then	do	it	and	be	happy.	Do	you	really
need	to	tinker	with	every	last	setting?
3
.	
Containerizing	your	microservices	it	is	not	pain-free,	but	is	a	really
good	compromise	around	cost	of	isolation	and	has	some	fantastic
benefits	for	local	development,	while	still	giving	you	a	degree	of	control
over	what	happens.	Expect	Kubernetes	in	your	future.
Many	people	are	proclaiming	“Kubernetes	or	bust!”	which	I	feel	is	unhelpful.	If
you’re	on	the	public	cloud,	and	your	problem	fits	FaaS	as	a	deployment	model,
do	that	instead	and	skip	Kubernetes.	Your	developers	will	likely	end	up	being
much	more	productive.	As	we’ll	discuss	more	in	
Chapter	16
,	don’t	let	the	fear	of
4
--- PAGE 328 ---
lock-in	keep	you	trapped	in	a	mess	of	your	own	making.
Found	an	awesome	PaaS	like	Heroku	or	Zeit,	and	have	an	application	that	fits
the	constraints	of	the	platform?	Push	all	the	work	to	the	platform	and	spend	more
time	working	on	your	product.	Both	Heroku	and	Zeit	are	pretty	fantastic
platforms	with	awesome	usability	from	a	developer	point	of	view.	Don’t	your
developers	deserve	to	be	happy	after	all?
For	the	rest	of	you,	containerization	is	the	way	to	go,	which	means	we	need	to
talk	about	Kubernetes.
ROLE	FOR	PUPPET,	CHEF,	AND	OTHER	TOOLS?
This
	chapter	has	changed	significantly	since	the	first	edition.	This	is	due	in
part	to	the	industry	as	a	whole	evolving,	but	also	to	new	technology	that	has
become	increasingly	useful.	The	emergence	of	new	technology	has	also	led
to	a	diminished	role	for	other	technology—and	so	we	see	tools	like	Puppet,
Chef,	Ansible,	and	Salt	playing	a	much	smaller	role	in	deploying
microservice	architectures	than	we	did	back	in	2014.
The	main	reason	for	this	is	fundamentally	the	rise	of	the	container.	The
power	of	tools	like	Puppet	and	Chef	is	that	they	give	you	a	way	to	bring	a
machine	to	a	desired	state,	with	that	desired	state	defined	in	some	code	form.
You	can	define	what	runtimes	you	need,	where	configuration	files	need	to
be,	etc.,	in	a	way	that	can	deterministically	be	run	time	and	again	on	the
same	machine,	ensuring	it	can	always	be	brought	to	the	same	state.
The
	way	most	people	build	up	a	container	is	by	defining	a	Dockerfile.	This
allows	you	to	define	the	same	requirements	as	you	would	with	Puppet	or
Chef,	with	some	differences.	A	container	is	blown	away	when	redeployed,
so	each	container	creation	is	done	from	scratch	(I’m	simplifying	somewhat
here).	This	means	that	a	lot	of	the	complexity	inherent	in	Puppet	and	Chef	to
handle	those	tools	being	run	over	and	over	on	the	same	machines	isn’t
needed.
Puppet,	Chef,	and	similar	tools	are	still	incredibly	useful,	but	their	role	has
now	been	pushed	out	of	the	container	and	further	down	the	stack.	People	use
tools	like	these	for	managing	legacy	applications	and	infrastructure,	or	for
building	up	the	clusters	that	container	workloads	now	run	on.	But	developers
--- PAGE 329 ---
are	even	less	likely	to	come	into	contact	with	these	tools	than	they	were	in
the	past.
The	concept	of	infrastructure	as	code	is	still	vitally	important.	It’s	just	that
the	type	of	tools	developers	are	likely	to	use	has	changed.	For	those	working
with	the	cloud,	for	example,	things	like	
Terraform
	can	be	very	useful	for
provisioning	cloud	infrastructure.	Recently,	I’ve	become	a	big	fan	of	
Pulumi
,
which	eschews	the	use	of	domain-specific	languages	(DSLs)	in	favor	of
using	normal	programming	languages	to	help	developers	manage	their	cloud
infrastructure.	I	see	big	things	ahead	for	Pulumi	as	delivery	teams	take	more
and	more	ownership	of	the	operational	world,	and	I	suspect	that	Puppet,
Chef,	and	the	like,	while	they	will	continue	to	play	a	useful	role	in
operations,	will	likely	move	further	and	further	away	from	day-to-day
development	
activities
.
Kubernetes	and	Container	Orchestration
As
	containers	started	gaining	traction,	many	people	started	looking	at	solutions
for	how	to	manage	containers	across	multiple	machines.	Docker	had	two
attempts	at	this	(with	Docker	Swarm	and	Docker	Swarm	Mode,	respectively);
companies	like	Rancher	and	CoreOS	came	up	with	their	own	takes;	and	more
general	purpose	platforms	like	Mesos	were	used	to	run	containers	alongside
other	sorts	of	workloads.	Ultimately,	though,	despite	a	lot	of	effort	on	these
products,	Kubernetes	has	in	the	last	couple	of	years	come	to	dominate	this	space.
Before	we	speak	to	Kubernetes	itself,	we	should	discuss	why	there’s	a	need	for	a
tool	like	it	in	the	first	place.
The	Case	for	Container	Orchestration
Broadly	speaking,	Kubernetes
	can	variously	be	described	as	a	container
orchestration	platform	or,	to	use	a	term	that	has	fallen	out	of	favor,	a	container
scheduler.	So	what	are	these	platforms,	and	why	might	we	want	them?
Containers	are	created	by	isolating	a	set	of	resources	on	an	underlying	machine.
Tools	like	Docker	allow	us	to	define	what	a	container	should	look	like	and	create
an	instance	of	that	container	on	a	machine.	But	most	solutions	require	that	our
--- PAGE 330 ---
software	be	defined	on	multiple	machines,	perhaps	to	handle	sufficient	load,	or
to	ensure	that	the	system	has	redundancy	in	place	to	tolerate	the	failure	of	a
single	node.	Container	orchestration	platforms	handle	how	and	where	container
workloads	are	run.	The	term	“scheduling”	starts	to	make	more	sense	in	this
context.	The	operator	says,	“I	want	this	thing	to	run,”	and	the	orchestrator	works
out	how	to	schedule	that	job—finding	available	resources,	reallocating	them	if
necessary,	and	handling	the	details	for	the	operator.
The	various	container	orchestration	platforms	also	handle	desired	state
management	for	us,	ensuring	that	the	expected	state	of	a	set	of	containers
(microservice	instances,	in	our	case)	is	maintained.	They	also	allow	us	to	specify
how	we	want	these	
workloads
	to	be	distributed,	allowing	us	to	optimize	for
resource	utilization,	latency	between	processes,	or	robustness	reasons.
Without	such	a	tool,	you’ll	have	to	manage	the	distribution	of	your	containers,
something	that	I	can	tell	you	from	firsthand	experience	gets	old	very	fast.
Writing	scripts	to	manage	launching	and	networking	container	instances	is	not
fun.
Broadly	speaking,	all	of	the	container	orchestration	platforms,	including
Kubernetes,	provide	these	capabilities	in	some	shape	or	form.	If	you	look	at
general	purpose	schedulers	like	Mesos	or	Nomad,	managed	solutions	like	AWS’s
ECS,	Docker	Swarm	Mode,	and	so	on,	you’ll	see	a	similar	featureset.	But	for
reasons	we’ll	explore	shortly,	Kubernetes	has	won	this	space.	It	also	has	one	or
two	interesting	concepts	that	are	worth	exploring	briefly.
A	Simplified	View	of	Kubernetes	Concepts
There
	are	many	other	concepts	in	Kubernetes,	so	you’ll	forgive	me	for	not	going
into	all	of	them	(that	would	definitely	justify	a	book	in	itself).	What	I’ll	try	to	do
here	is	outline	the	key	ideas	you’ll	need	to	engage	with	when	you	first	start
working	with	the	tool.	Let’s	look	into	the	concept	of	a	cluster	first,	as	shown	in
Figure	8-22
.
--- PAGE 331 ---
Figure	8-22.	
A	simple	overview	of	Kubernetes	topology
Fundamentally,	a	Kubernetes	cluster	consists	of	two	things.	First,	there’s	a	set	of
machines	that	the	workloads	will	run	on	called	the	nodes.	Secondly,	there’s	a	set
of	controlling	software	that	manages	these	nodes	and	is	referred	to	as	the	control
plane.	These	nodes	could	be	running	physical	machines	or	virtual	machines
under	the	hood.	Rather
	than	scheduling	a	container,	Kubernetes	instead
schedules	something	it	calls	a	
pod
.	A	pod	consists	of	one	or	more	containers	that
will	be	deployed	together.
Commonly,	you’ll	have	only	one	container	in	a	pod—for	example,	an	instance	of
your	microservice.	There	are	some	occasions	(rare,	in	my	experience)	where
having	multiple	containers	deployed	together	can	make	sense	though.	A	good
example	of	this	is	the	use	of	sidecar	proxies	such	as	Envoy,	often	as	part	of	a
service	mesh—a	topic	we	discussed	in	
“Service	Meshes	and	API	Gateways”
.
The
	next	concept	that	is	useful	to	know	about	is	called	a	
service
.	In	the	context
of	Kubernetes,	you	can	think	of	a	service	as	a	stable	routing	endpoint—basically,
a	way	to	map	from	the	pods	you	have	running	to	a	stable	network	interface	that
is	available	within	the	cluster.	Kubernetes	handles	routing	within	the	cluster,	as
we	see	in	
Figure	8-23
.
--- PAGE 332 ---
Figure	8-23.	
How	a	pod,	a	service,	and	a	deployment	work	together
The	idea	is	that	a	given	pod	can	be	considered	ephemeral—it	be	might	shut
down	for	any	number	of	reasons—whereas	a	service	as	a	whole	lives	on.	The
service	exists	to	route	calls	to	and	from	the	pods	and	can	handle	pods	being	shut
down	or	new	pods	being	launched.	Purely	from	a	terminology	point	of	view,	this
can	be	confusing.	We	talk	more	generally	about	deploying	a	service,	but	in
Kubernetes	you	don’t	deploy	a	service—you	deploy	pods	that	map	to	a	service.
It	can	take	a	while	to	get	your	head	around	this.
Next,	we
	have	a	
replica	set
.	With	a	replica	set,	you	define	the	desired	state	of	a
set	of	pods.	This	is	where	you	say,	“I	want	four	of	these	pods,”	and	Kubernetes
handles	the	rest.	In	practice,	you	are	no	longer	expected	to	work	with	replica	sets
directly;	instead,	they	are	handled	for	you	via	a	
deployment
,	the	last	concept
we’ll	look	at.	A	deployment	is	how	you	apply	changes	to	your	pods	and	replica
sets.	With	a	deployment,	you	can	do	things	like	issue	rolling	upgrades	(so	you
replace	pods	with	a	newer	version	in	a	gradual	fashion	to	avoid	downtime),
rollbacks,	scaling	up	the	number	of	nodes,	and	more.
So,	to	deploy	your	microservice,	you	define	a	
pod
,	which	will	contain	your
microservice	instance	inside	it;	you	define	a	
service
,	which	will	let	Kubernetes
know	how	your	microservice	will	be	accessed;	and	you	apply	changes	to	the
--- PAGE 333 ---
running	pods	using	a	
deployment
.	It	seems	easy	when	I	say	that,	doesn’t	it?	Let’s
just	say	I’ve	left	out	quite	a	bit	of	stuff	here	for	the	sake	of	brevity.
Multitenancy	and	Federation
From
	an	efficiency	point	of	view,	you’d	want	to	pool	all	the	computing	resources
available	to	you	in	a	single	Kubernetes	cluster	and	have	all	workloads	run	there
from	all	across	your	organization.	This	would	likely	give	you	a	higher	utilization
of	the	underlying	resources,	as	unused	resources	could	be	freely	reallocated	to
whomever	needs	them.	This	in	turn	should	reduce	costs	accordingly.
The	challenge	is	that	while	Kubernetes	is	well	able	to	manage	different
microservices	for	different	purposes,	it	has	limitations	regarding	how
“multitenanted”	the	platform	is.	Different	departments	in	your	organization
might	want	different	degrees	of	control	over	various	resources.	These	sorts	of
controls	were	not	built	into	Kubernetes,	a	decision	that	seems	sensible	in	terms
of	trying	to	keep	the	scope	of	Kubernetes	somewhat	limited.	To	work	around	this
problem,	organizations	seem	to	explore	a	couple	of	different	paths.
The	first	option	is	to	adopt	a	platform	built	on	top	of	Kubernetes	that	provides
these	capabilities—OpenShift	from	Red	Hat,	for	example,	has	a	rich	set	of
access	controls	and	other	capabilities	that	are	built	with	larger	organizations	in
mind	and	can	make	the	concept	of	multitenancy	somewhat	easier.	Aside	from
any	financial	implication	of	using	these	sorts	of	platforms,	for	them	to	work
you’ll	sometimes	have	to	work	with	the	abstractions	given	to	you	by	the	vendor
you	chose—meaning	your	developers	need	to	know	not	only	how	to	use
Kubernetes	but	also	how	to	use	that	specific	vendor’s	platform.
Another	approach	is	to	consider	a	federated	model,	outlined	in	
Figure	8-24
.	With
federation,	you	have	multiple	separate	clusters,	with	some	layer	of	software	that
sits	on	top	allowing	you	to	make	changes	across	all	the	clusters	if	needed.	In
many	cases,	people	would	work	directly	against	one	cluster,	giving	them	a	pretty
familiar	Kubernetes	experience,	but	in	some	situations,	you	may	want	to
distribute	an	application	across	multiple	clusters,	perhaps	if	those	clusters	were
in	different	geographies	and	you	wanted	your	application	deployed	with	some
ability	to	handle	the	loss	of	an	entire	cluster.
--- PAGE 334 ---
Figure	8-24.	
An	example	of	federation	in	Kubernetes
The	federated	nature	makes	resource	pooling	more	challenging.	As	we	see	in
Figure	8-24
,	Cluster	A	is	fully	utilized,	whereas	Cluster	B	has	lots	of	unused
capacity.	If	we	wanted	to	run	more	workloads	on	Cluster	A,	doing	so	would	be
possible	only	if	we	could	give	it	more	resources,	such	as	moving	the	empty	node
on	Cluster	B	over	to	Cluster	A.	How	easy	it	will	be	to	move	the	node	from	one
cluster	to	the	other	will	depend	on	the	nature	of	the	federation	software	being
used,	but	I	can	well	imagine	this	being	a	nontrivial	change.	Bear	in	mind	that	a
single	node	can	be	part	of	either	one	cluster	or	another	and	so	cannot	run	pods
for	both	Cluster	A	and	Cluster	B.
It’s	worth	noting	that	having	multiple	clusters	can	be	beneficial	when	we
consider	the	challenges	of	upgrading	the	cluster	itself.	It	may	be	easier	and	safer
to	move	a	microservice	over	to	a	newly	upgraded	cluster	than	to	upgrade	the
cluster	in-place.
Fundamentally,	these	are	challenges	of	scale.	For	some	organizations,	you’ll
never	have	these	issues,	as	you’re	happy	to	share	a	single	cluster.	For	other
organizations	looking	to	get	efficiencies	at	larger	scale,	this	is	certainly	an	area
--- PAGE 335 ---
that	you’ll	want	to	explore	in	more	detail.	It	should	be	noted	that	there	are	a
number	of	different	visions	for	what	Kubernetes	federation	should	look	like,	and
a	number	of	different	toolchains	out	there	for	managing	them.
THE	BACKGROUND	BEHIND	KUBERNETES
Kubernetes
	started	as	an	open	source	project	at	Google,	which	drew	its
inspiration	from	the	earlier	container	management	systems	Omega	and	Borg.
Many	of	the	core	concepts	in	Kubernetes	are	based	on	concepts	around	how
container	workloads	are	managed	inside	Google,	albeit	with	a	slightly
different	target	in	mind.	Borg	runs	systems	at	a	massive	global	scale,
handling	tens	if	not	hundreds	of	thousands	of	containers	across	data	centers
globally.	If	you	want	more	detail	about	how	the	different	mindsets	behind
these	three	Google	platforms	compare,	albeit	from	a	Google-centric
viewpoint,	I	recommend	
“Borg,	Omega,	and	Kubernetes”
	by	Brendan	Burns
et	al.	as	a	good	overview.
While	Kubernetes	shares	some	DNA	with	Borg	and	Omega,	working	at
massive	scale	has	not	been	a	main	driver	behind	the	project.	Both	Nomad
and	Mesos	(each	of	which	took	a	cue	from	Borg)	have	found	a	niche	in
situations	in	which	clusters	of	thousands	of	machines	are	needed,	as
demonstrated	in	Apple’s	use	of	Mesos	for	Siri
	or	
Roblox’s	use	of	Nomad
.
Kubernetes	wanted	to	take	ideas	from	Google	but	provide	a	more	developer-
friendly	experience	than	that	delivered	by	Borg	or	Omega.	It’s	possible	to
look	at	Google’s	decision	to	invest	a	lot	of	engineering	effort	in	creating	an
open	source	tool	in	a	purely	altruistic	light,	and	while	I’m	sure	that	was	the
intention	of	some	people,	the	reality	is	that	this	is	as	much	about	the	risk
Google	was	seeing	from	competition
	in	the	public	cloud	space,	specifically
AWS.
In
	the	public	cloud	market,	Google	Cloud	has	gained	ground	but	is	still	a
distant	third	behind	Azure	and	AWS	(who	are	out	in	front),	and	some
analysis	has	it	being	edged	into	fourth	place	by	Alibaba	Cloud.	Despite	the
improving	market	share,	it	is	still	nowhere	near	where	Google	wants	it	to	be.
It	seems	likely	that	a	major	concern	was	that	the	clear	market	leader,	AWS,
could	eventually	have	a	near	monopoly	in	the	cloud	computing	space.
5
--- PAGE 336 ---
Moreover,	concerns	regarding	the	cost	of	migration	from	one	provider	to
another	meant	that	such	a	position	of	market	dominance	would	be	hard	to
shift.	And	then	along	comes	Kubernetes,	with	its	promise	of	being	able	to
deliver	a	standard	platform	for	running	container	workloads	that	could	be
run	by	multiple	vendors.	The	hope	was	that	this	would	enable	migration
from	one	provider	to	another	and	avoid	an	AWS-only	future.
So	you	can	see	Kubernetes	as	a	generous	contribution	from	Google	to	the
wider	IT	industry,	or	as	an	attempt	by	Google	to	remain	relevant	in	the	fast-
moving	public	cloud	space.	I	have	no	problem	seeing	both	things	as	equally
true.
The	Cloud	Native	Computing	Federation
The
	Cloud	Native	Computing	Foundation	(CNCF	for	short)	is	an	offshoot	of	the
nonprofit	Linux	Foundation.	The	CNCF	focuses	on	curating	the	ecosystem	of
projects	to	help	promote	cloud	native	development,	although	in	practice	this
means	supporting	Kubernetes	and	projects	that	work	with	or	build	on
Kubernetes	itself.	The	projects	themselves	aren’t	created	or	directly	developed
by	the	CNCF;	instead,	you	can	see	the	CNCF	as	a	place	where	these	projects	that
might	otherwise	be	developed	in	isolation	can	be	hosted	together	in	the	same
place,	and	where	common	standards	and	interoperability	can	be	developed.
In	this	way,	the	CNCF	reminds	me	of	the	role	of	the	Apache	Software
Foundation—as	with	the	CNCF,	a	project	being	part	of	the	Apache	Software
Foundation	normally	implies	a	level	of	quality	and	wider	community	support.
All	of	the	projects	hosted	by	the	CNCF	are	open	source,	although	the
development	of	these	projects	may	well	be	driven	by	commercial	entities.
Aside	from	helping	guide	the	development	of	these	associated	projects,	the
CNCF	also	runs	events,	provides	documentation	and	training	materials,	and
defines	the	various	certification	programs	around	Kubernetes.	The	group	itself
has	members	from	across	the	industry,	and	although	it	can	be	difficult	for
smaller	groups	or	independents	to	play	much	of	a	role	in	the	organization	itself,
the	degree	of	cross-industry	support	(including	many	companies	who	are
competitors	with	each	other)	is	impressive.
As	an	outsider,	the	CNCF	seems	to	have	had	great	success	in	helping	spread	the
--- PAGE 337 ---
word	regarding	the	usefulness	of	the	projects	it	curates.	It’s	also	acted	as	a	place
where	the	evolution	of	major	projects	can	be	discussed	in	the	open,	ensuring	a
lot	of	broad	input.	The	CNCF	has	played	a	huge	part	in	the	success	of
Kubernetes—it’s	easy	to	imagine	that	without	it,	we’d	still	have	a	fragmented
landscape	in	this	area.
Platforms	and	Portability
You’ll
	often	hear	Kubernetes	described	as	a	“platform.”	It’s	not	really	a	platform
in	the	sense	that	a	developer	would	understand	the	term,	though.	Out	of	the	box,
all	it	really	gives	you	is	the	ability	to	run	container	workloads.	Most	folks	using
Kubernetes	end	up	assembling	their	own	platform	by	installing	supporting
software	such	as	service	meshes,	message	brokers,	log	aggregation	tools,	and
more.	In	larger	organizations,	this	ends	up	being	the	responsibility	of	a	platform
engineering	team,	who	put	this	platform	together	and	manage	it,	and	help
developers	use	the	platform	
effectively.
This	can	be	both	a	blessing	and	a	curse.	This	pick-and-mix	approach	is	made
possible	due	to	a	fairly	compatible	ecosystem	of	tools	(thanks	in	large	part	to	the
work	by	the	CNCF).	This	means	you	can	select	your	favorite	tools	for	specific
tasks	if	you	want.	But	it	can	also	lead	to	the	tyranny	of	choice—we	can	easily
become	overwhelmed	with	so	many	options.	Products	like	Red	Hat’s	OpenShift
partly	take	this	choice	away	from	us,	as	they	give	us	a	ready-made	platform	with
some	decisions	already	made	
for	us
.
What	this	means	is	that	although	at	the	base	level	Kubernetes	offers	a	portable
abstraction	for	container	execution,	in	practice	it’s	not	as	simple	as	taking	an
application	that	works	on	one	cluster	and	expecting	it	will	work	elsewhere.	Your
application,	your	operations	and	developer	workflow,	may	well	rely	on	your	own
custom	platform.	Moving	from	one	Kubernetes	cluster	to	another	may	well	also
require	that	you	rebuild	that	platform	on	your	new	destination.	I’ve	spoken	to
many	organizations	that	have	adopted	Kubernetes	primarily	because	they’re
worried	about	being	locked	in	to	a	single	vendor,	but	these	organizations	haven’t
understood	this	nuance—applications	built	on	Kubernetes	are	portable	across
Kubernetes	clusters	in	theory,	but	not	always	in	practice.
Helm,	Operators,	and	CRDs,	Oh	My!
--- PAGE 338 ---
One
	area	of	continuing	confusion	in	the	space	of	Kubernetes	is	how	to	manage
the	deployment	and	life	cycle	of	third-party	applications	and	subsystems.
Consider	the	need	to	run	Kafka	on	your	Kubernetes	cluster.	You	could	create
your	own	pod,	service,	and	deployment	specifications	and	run	them	yourself.
But	what	about	managing	an	upgrade	to	your	Kafka	setup?	What	about	other
common	maintenance	tasks	you	might	want	to	deal	with,	like	upgrading	running
stateful	software?
A	number	of	tools	have	emerged	that	aim	to	give	you	the	ability	to	manage	these
types	of	applications	at	a	more	sensible	level	of	abstraction.	The	idea	is	that
someone	creates	something	akin	to	a	package	for	Kafka,	and	you	run	it	on	your
Kubernetes	cluster	in	a	more	black-box	manner.	Two	of	the	best-known
solutions	in	this	space	are	Operator	and	Helm.	Helm	bills	itself	as	“the	missing
package	manager”	for	Kubernetes,	and	while	Operator	can	manage	initial
installation,	it	seems	to	be	focused	more	on	the	ongoing	management	of	the
application.	Confusingly,	while	you	can	see	Operator	and	Helm	as	being
alternatives	to	one	another,	you	can	also	use	both	of	them	together	in	some
situations	(Helm	for	initial	install,	Operator	for	life-cycle	operations).
A
	more	recent	evolution	in	this	space	is	something	called	custom	resource
definitions,	or	CRDs.	With	CRDs	you	can	extend	the	core	Kubernetes	APIs,
allowing	you	to	plug	in	new	behavior	to	your	cluster.	The	nice	thing	about	CRDs
is	that	they	integrate	fairly	seamlessly	into	the	existing	command-line	interface,
access	controls,	and	more—so	your	custom	extension	doesn’t	feel	like	an	alien
addition.	They	basically	allow	you	to	implement	your	own	Kubernetes
abstractions.	Think	of	the	pod,	replica	set,	service,	and	deployment	abstractions
we	discussed	earlier—with	CRDs,	you	could	add	your	own	into	the	mix.
You	can	use	CRDs	for	everything	from	managing	small	bits	of	configuration	to
controlling	service	meshes	like	Istio	or	cluster-based	software	like	Kafka.	With
such	a	flexible	and	powerful	concept,	I	find	it	difficult	to	understand	where
CRDs	would	best	be	used,	and	there	doesn’t	seem	to	be	a	general	consensus	out
there	among	the	experts	I’ve	chatted	to	either.	This	whole	space	still	doesn’t
seem	to	be	settling	down	as	quickly	as	I’d	hoped,	and	there	isn’t	as	much
consensus	as	I’d	like—a	trend	in	the	Kubernetes	ecosystem.
And	Knative
--- PAGE 339 ---
Knative
	is
	an	open	source	project	that	aims	to	provide	FaaS-style	workflows	to
developers,	using	Kubernetes	under	the	hood.	Fundamentally,	Kubernetes	isn’t
terribly	developer	friendly,	especially	if	we	compare	it	to	the	usability	of	things
like	Heroku	or	similar	platforms.	The	aim	with	Knative	is	to	bring	the	developer
experience	of	FaaS	to	Kubernetes,	hiding	the	complexity	of	Kubernetes	from
developers.	In	turn,	this	should	mean	development	teams	are	able	to	more	easily
manage	the	full	life	cycle	of	their	software.
We’ve
	already	discussed	service	meshes,	and	specifically	mentioned	Istio,	back
in	
Chapter	5
.	A	service	mesh	is	essential	for	Knative	to	run.	While	Knative
theoretically	allows	you	to	plug	in	different	service	meshes,	only	Istio	is
considered	stable	at	this	time	(with	support	for	other	meshes	like	Ambassador
and	Gloo	still	in	alpha).	In	practice,	this	means	that	if	you	want	to	adopt	Knative,
you’ll	also	already	have	to	have	bought	into	Istio.
With	both	Kubernetes	and	Istio,	projects	driven	largely	by	Google,	it	took	a	very
long	time	for	them	to	get	to	a	stage	where	they	could	be	considered	stable.
Kubernetes	still	had	major	shifts	after	its	1.0	release,	and	only	very	recently
Istio,	which	is	going	to	underpin	Knative,	was	completely	rearchitected.	This
track	record	of	delivering	stable,	production-ready	projects	makes	me	think	that
Knative	may	well	take	a	lot	longer	to	be	ready	for	use	by	most	of	us.	While	some
organizations	are	using	it,	and	you	could	probably	use	it	too,	experience	says	it
will	be	only	so	long	before	some	major	shift	will	take	place	that	will	require
painful	migration.	It’s	partly	for	this	reason	that	I’ve	suggested	that	more
conservative	organizations	who	are	considering	an	FaaS-like	offering	for	their
Kubernetes	cluster	look	elsewhere—projects	like	OpenFaaS	are	already	being
used	in	production	by	organizations	all	over	the	world	and	don’t	require	an
underlying	service	mesh.	But	if	you	do	jump	on	the	Knative	train	right	now,
don’t	be	surprised	if	you	have	the	odd	derailment	in	your	future.
One	other	note:	it’s	been	a	shame	to	see	that	Google	has	decided	not	to	make
Knative	a	part	of	the	CNCF—one	can	only	assume	this	is	because	Google	wants
to	drive	the	direction	of	the	tool	itself.	Kubernetes	was	a	confusing	prospect	for
many	when	launched,	partly	because	it	reflected	Google’s	mindset	around	how
containers	should	be	managed.	It	benefited	hugely	from	involvement	from	a
broader	set	of	the	industry,	and	it’s	too	bad	that	at	this	stage	at	least,	Google	has
decided	it	isn’t	interested	in	the	same	broad	industry	involvement	for	Knative.
--- PAGE 340 ---
The	Future
Going
	forward,	I	see	no	signs	that	the	rampaging	juggernaut	of	Kubernetes	will
halt	any	time	soon,	and	I	fully	expect	to	see	more	organizations	implementing
their	own	Kubernetes	clusters	for	private	clouds	or	making	use	of	managed
clusters	in	public	cloud	settings.	However,	I	think	what	we’re	seeing	now,	with
developers	having	to	learn	how	to	use	Kubernetes	directly,	will	be	a	relatively
short-lived	blip.	Kubernetes	is	great	at	managing	container	workloads	and
providing	a	platform	for	other	things	to	be	built	on.	It	isn’t	what	could	be
considered	a	developer-friendly	experience,	though.	Google	itself	has	shown	us
that	with	the	push	behind	Knative,	and	I	think	we’ll	continue	to	see	Kubernetes
hidden	under	higher-level	abstraction	layers.	So	in	the	future,	I	expect
Kubernetes	to	be	everywhere.	You	just	won’t	know	it.
This	isn’t	to	say	that	developers	can	forget	they	are	building	a	distributed	system.
They’ll	still	need	to	understand	the	myriad	challenges	that	this	type	of
architecture	brings.	It’s	just	that	they	won’t	have	to	worry	as	much	about	the
detail	of	how	their	software	is	mapped	to	underlying	computing	resources.
Should	You	Use	It?
So
	for	those	of	you	who	aren’t	already	fully	paid-up	members	of	the	Kubernetes
club,	should	you	join?	Well,	let	me	share	a	few	guidelines.	Firstly,	implementing
and	managing	your	own	Kubernetes	cluster	is	not	for	the	faint	of	heart—it	is	a
significant	undertaking.	So	much	of	the	quality	of	experience	that	your
developers	will	have	using	your	Kubernetes	install	will	depend	on	the
effectiveness	of	the	team	running	the	cluster.	For	this	reason,	a	number	of	the
larger	organizations	I’ve	spoken	to	who	have	gone	down	the	Kubernetes	on-
prem	path	have	outsourced	this	work	to	specialized	companies.
Even
	better,	use	a	fully	managed	cluster.	If	you	can	make	use	of	the	public	cloud,
then	use	fully	managed	solutions	like	those	provided	by	Google,	Azure,	and
AWS.	What	I	would	say,	though,	is	that	if	you	are	able	to	use	the	public	cloud,
then	consider	whether	Kubernetes	is	actually	what	you	want.	If	you’re	after	a
developer-friendly	platform	for	handling	the	deployment	and	life	cycle	of	your
microservices,	then	the	FaaS	platforms	we’ve	already	looked	at	could	be	a	great
fit.	You	could	also	look	at	the	other	PaaS-like	offerings,	like
	Azure	Web	Apps,
Google	App	Engine,	or	some	of	the	smaller	providers	like	Zeit	or	Heroku.
--- PAGE 341 ---
Before	you	decide	to	start	using	Kubernetes,	get	some	of	your	administrators	and
developers	using	it.	The	developers	can	get	started	running	something
lightweight	locally,	such	as	minikube	or	MicroK8s,	giving	them	something
pretty	close	to	a	full	Kubernetes	experience,	but	on	their	laptops.	The	people
you’ll	have	managing	the	platform	may	need	a	deeper	dive.	
Katacoda
	has	some
great	online	tutorials	for	coming	to	grips	with	the	core	concepts,	and	the	CNCF
helps	put	out	a	lot	of	training	materials	in	this	space.	Make	sure	the	people	who
will	actually	use	this	stuff	get	to	play	with	it	before	you	make	up	your	mind.
Don’t	get	trapped	into	thinking	that	you	have	to	have	Kubernetes	“because
everyone	else	is	doing	it.”	This	is	just	as	dangerous	a	justification	for	picking
Kubernetes	as	it	is	for	picking	microservices.	As	good	as	Kubernetes	is,	it	isn’t
for	everyone—carry	out	your	own	assessment.	But	let’s	be	frank—if	you’ve	got
a	handful	of	developers	and	only	a	few	microservices,	Kubernetes	is	likely	to	be
huge	overkill,	even	if	using	a	fully	managed	platform.
Progressive	Delivery
Over
	the	last	decade	or	so,	we’ve	become	smarter	at	deploying	software	to	our
users.	New	techniques	have	emerged	that	were	driven	by	a	number	of	different
use	cases	and	came	from	many	different	parts	of	the	IT	industry,	but	primarily
they	were	all	focused	around	making	the	act	of	pushing	out	new	software	much
less	risky.	And	if	releasing	software	becomes	less	risky,	we	can	release	software
more	frequently.
There	are	a	host	of	activities	we	carry	out	before	sending	our	software	live	that
can	help	us	pick	up	problems	before	they	impact	real	users.	Preproduction
testing	is	a	huge	part	of	this,	although,	as	we’ll	discuss	in	
Chapter	9
,	this	can
only	take	us	so	far.
In	their	book	
Accelerate
,
	Nicole	Forsgren,	Jez	Humble,	and	Gene	Kim	show
clear	evidence	drawn	from	extensive	research	that	high-performing	companies
deploy	more	frequently	than	their	low-performing	counterparts	and	at	the	same
time	have	
much	lower	change	failure	rates
.
The	idea	that	you	“go	fast	and	break	stuff”	doesn’t	really	seem	to	apply	when	it
comes	to	shipping	software—shipping	frequently	and	having	lower	failure	rates
goes	hand	in	hand,	and	organizations	that	have	realized	this	have	changed	how
6
--- PAGE 342 ---
they	think	about	releasing	software.
These	organizations	make	use	of	techniques	like	feature	toggles,	canary	releases,
parallel	runs,	and	more,	which	we’ll	detail	in	this	section.	This	shift	in	how	we
think	about
	releasing	functionality	falls	under	the	banner	of	what	is	called
progressive	delivery
.	Functionality	is	released	to	users	in	a	controlled	manner;
instead	of	a	big-bang	deployment,	we	can	be	smart	about	who	sees	what
functionality—for	example,	by	rolling	out	a	new	version	of	our	software	to	a
subset	of	our	users.
Fundamentally,	what	all	these	techniques	have	at	their	heart	is	a	simple	shift	in
how	we	think	about	shipping	software.	Namely,	that	we	can	separate	the	concept
of	deployment	from	that	of	release.
Separating	Deployment	from	Release
Jez	Humble,	coauthor	of	
Continuous	Delivery
,	makes	the	case	for	separating
these	two	ideas,	and	he	
makes	this	a	core	principle	for	low-risk	software
releases
:
Deployment	is	what	happens	when	you	install	some	version	of	your	software
into	a	particular	environment	(the	production	environment	is	often	implied).
Release	is	when	you	make	a	system	or	some	part	of	it	(for	example,	a	feature)
available	to	users.
Jez	argues	that	by	separating	these	two	ideas,	we	can	ensure	that	our	software
works	in	its	production	setting	without	failures	being	seen	by	our	users.	Blue-
green	deployment	is	one	of	the	simplest	examples	of	this	concept	in	action—you
have	one	version	of	your	software	live	(blue),	and	then	you	deploy	a	new	version
alongside	the	old	version	in	production	(green).	You	check	to	make	sure	that	the
new	version	is	working	as	expected,	and	if	it	is,	you	redirect	customers	to	see	the
new	version	of	your	software.	If	you	find	a	problem	before	the	switchover,	no
customer	is	impacted.
While	blue-green	deployments	are	among	the	simplest	examples	of	this
principle,	there	are	a	number	of	more	sophisticated	techniques	we	can	use	when
we	embrace	this	concept.
On	to	Progressive	Delivery
--- PAGE 343 ---
James	Governor,	cofounder	of	developer-focused	industry	analyst	firm
RedMonk,	
first	coined
	the	term	
progressive	delivery
	to	cover	a	number	of
different	techniques	being	used	in	this	space.	He	has	gone	on	to	describe
progressive	delivery	as	
“continuous	delivery	with	fine-grained	control	over	the
blast	radius”
—so	it’s	an	extension	of	continuous	delivery	but	also	a	technique
that	gives	us	the	ability	to	control	the	potential	impact	of	our	newly	released
software.
Picking	up	this	theme,	Adam	Zimman	from	LaunchDarkly	
describes
	how
progressive	delivery	impacts	“the	business.”	From	that	point	of	view,	we	require
a	shift	in	thinking	about	how	new	functionality	reaches	our	customers.	It’s	no
longer	a	single	rollout—it	can	now	be	a	phased	activity.	Importantly,	though,
progressive	delivery	can	empower	the	product	owner	by,	as	Adam	puts	it,
“delegating	the	control	of	the	feature	to	the	owner	that	is	most	closely
responsible	for	the	outcome.”	For	this	to	work,	however,	the	product	owner	in
question	needs	to	understand	the	mechanics	of	the	progressive	delivery
technique	being	used,	implying	a	somewhat	technically	savvy	product	owner,	or
else	support	from	a	suitably	savvy	set	of	people.
We’ve	already	touched	on	blue-green	deployments	as	one	progressive	delivery
technique.	Let’s	briefly	take	a	look	at	a	few	more.
Feature	Toggles
With
	feature	toggles	(otherwise	known	as	feature	flags),	we	hide	deployed
functionality	behind	a	toggle	that	can	be	used	to	switch	functionality	off	or	on.
This	is	most	commonly	used	as	part	of	trunk-based	development,	where
functionality	that	isn’t	yet	finished	can	be	checked	in	and	deployed	but	still
hidden	from	end	users,	but	it	has	lots	of	applications	outside	of	this.	This	could
be	useful	to	turn	on	a	feature	at	a	specified	time,	or	turn	off	a	feature	that	is
causing	problems.
You	can	also	use	feature	toggles	in	a	more	fine-grained	manner,	perhaps
allowing	a	flag	to	have	a	different	state	based	on	the	nature	of	the	user	making	a
request.	So	you	could	for	example	have	a	group	of	customers	that	see	a	feature
turned	on	(perhaps	a	beta	test	group),	whereas	most	people	see	the	feature	as
being	turned	off—this	could	help	you	implement	a	canary	rollout,	something	we
--- PAGE 344 ---
discuss	next.	Fully	managed	solutions	exist	for	managing	feature	toggles,
including	
LaunchDarkly
	and	
Split
.	Impressive	as	these	platforms	are,	I	think	you
can	get	started	with	something	much	simpler—just	a	configuration	file	can	do
for	a	start,	then	look	at	these	technologies	as	you	start	pushing	how	you	want	to
use	the	toggles.
For	a	much	deeper	dive	into	the	world	of	feature	toggles,	I	can	heartily
recommend	Pete	Hodgson’s	writeup	
“Feature	Toggles	(aka	Feature	Flags)”
,
which	goes	into	a	lot	of	detail	regarding	how	to	implement	them	and	the	many
different	ways	they	can	be	used.
Canary	Release
To	err	is	human,	but	to	really	foul	things	up	you	need	a	computer.
We
	all	make	mistakes,	and	computers	can	let	us	make	mistakes	faster	and	at
larger	scale	than	ever	before.	Given	that	mistakes	are	unavoidable	(and	trust	me,
they	are),	then	it	makes	sense	to	do	things	that	allow	us	to	limit	the	impact	of
these	mistakes.	Canary	releases	are	one	such	technique.
Named	for	the	canaries	taken	into	mines	as	an	early	warning	system	for	miners
to	warn	them	of	the	presence	of	dangerous	gases,	with	a	canary	rollout	the	idea
is	that	a	limited	subset	of	our	customers	see	new	functionality.	If	there	is	a
problem	with	the	rollout,	then	only	that	portion	of	our	customers	is	impacted.	If
the	feature	works	for	that	canary	group,	then	it	can	be	rolled	out	to	more	of	your
customers	until	everyone	sees	the	new	version.
For	a	microservice	architecture,	a	toggle	could	be	configured	at	an	individual
microservice	level,	turning	functionality	on	(or	off)	for	requests	to	that
functionality	from	the	outside	world	or	other	microservices.	Another	technique
is	to	have	two	different	versions	of	a	microservice	running	side	by	side,	and	use
the	toggle	to	route	to	either	the	old	or	the	new	version.	Here,	the	canary
implementation	has	to	be	somewhere	in	the	routing/networking	path,	rather	than
being	in	one	microservice.
When	I	first	did	a	canary	release	we	controlled	the	rollout	manually.	We	could
configure	the	percentage	of	our	traffic	seeing	the	new	functionality,	and	over	a
period	of	a	week	we	gradually	increased	this	until	everyone	saw	the	new
functionality.	Over	the	week,	we	kept	an	eye	on	our	error	rates,	bug	reports,	and
7
--- PAGE 345 ---
the	like.	Nowadays,	it’s	more	common	to	see	this	process	handled	in	an
automated	fashion.	Tools	like	
Spinnaker
	for	example	have	the	ability	to
automatically	ramp	up	calls	based	on	metrics,	such	as	increasing	the	percentage
of	calls	to	a	new	microservice	version	if	the	error	rates	are	at	an	acceptable	level.
Parallel	Run
With
	a	canary	release,	a	request	to	a	piece	of	functionality	will	be	served	by
either	the	old	or	the	new	version.	This	means	we	can’t	compare	how	the	two
versions	of	functionality	would	handle	the	same	request,	something	that	can	be
important	if	you	want	to	make	sure	that	the	new	functionality	works	in	exactly
the	same	way	as	the	old	version	of	functionality.
With	a	parallel	run	you	do	exactly	that—you	run	two	different	implementations
of	the	same	functionality	side	by	side,	and	send	a	request	to	the	functionality	to
both	implementations.	With	a	microservice	architecture,	the	most	obvious
approach	might	be	to	dispatch	a	service	call	to	two	different	versions	of	the	same
service	and	compare	the	results.	An	alternative	is	to	coexist	both
implementations	of	the	functionality	inside	the	same	service,	which	can	often
make	comparison	easier.
When	executing	both	implementations,	it’s	important	to	realize	that	you	likely
only	want	the	results	of	one	of	the	invocations.	One	implementation	is
considered	the	source	of	truth—this	is	the	implementation	you	currently	trust,
and	is	typically	the	existing	implementation.	Depending	on	the	nature	of	the
functionality	you	are	comparing	with	a	parallel	run,	you	might	have	to	give	this
nuance	careful	thought—you	wouldn’t	want	to	send	two	identical	order	updates
to	a	customer,	or	pay	an	invoice	twice	for	example!
I	explore	the	parallel	run	pattern	in	a	lot	more	detail	in	Chapter	3	of	my	book
Monolith	to	Microservices
.
	There	I	explore	its	use	in	helping	migrate
functionality	from	a	monolithic	system	to	a	microservice	architecture,	where	we
want	to	ensure	that	our	new	microservice	behaves	in	the	same	way	as	the
equivilent	monolith	functionality.	In	another	context,	GitHub	makes	use	of	this
pattern	when	reworking	core	parts	of	its	codebase,	and	have	released	an	open
source	tool	
Scientist
	to	help	with	this	process.	Here,	the	parallel	run	is	done
within	a	single	process,	with	Scientist	helping	to	compare	the	invocations.
8
--- PAGE 346 ---
TIP
With
	blue-green	deployment,	feature	toggles,	canary	releases,	and	parallel	runs	we’ve	just
scratched	the	surface	of	the	field	of	progressive	delivery.	These	ideas	can	work	well	together
(we’ve	already	touched	on	how	you	could	use	feature	toggles	to	implement	a	canary	rollout	for
example),	but	you	probably	want	to	ease	yourself	in.	To	start	off,	just	remember	to	separate	the
two	concepts	of	deployment	and	release.	Next,	start	looking	for	ways	to	help	you	deploy	your
software	more	frequently,	but	in	a	safe	manner.	Work	with	your	product	owner	or	other
business	stakeholders	to	understand	how	some	of	these	techniques	can	help	you	go	faster,	but
also	help	reduce	failures	too.
Summary
OK,	so
	we	covered	a	lot	of	ground	here.	Let’s	briefly	recap	before	we	move	on.
Firstly,	let’s	remind	ourselves	of	the	principles	for	deployment	that	I	outlined
earlier:
Isolated	execution
Run	microservice	instances	in	an	isolated	fashion	where	they	have	their	own
computing	resources,	and	their	execution	cannot	impact	other	microservice
instances	running	nearby.
Focus	on	automation
Choose	technology	that	allows	for	a	high	degree	of	automation,	and	adopt
automation	as	a	core	part	of	your	culture.
Infrastructure	as	code
Represent	the	configuration	for	your	infrastructure	to	ease	automation	and
promote	information	sharing.	Store	this	code	in	source	control	to	allow	for
environments	to	be	re-created.
Aim	for	zero-downtime	deployment
Take	independent	deployability	further,	and	ensure	that	deploying	a	new
version	of	a	microservice	can	be	done	without	any	downtime	to	users	of	your
service	(be	it	humans	or	other	microservices).
--- PAGE 347 ---
Desired	state	management
Use	a	platform	that	maintains	your	microservice	in	a	defined	state,	launching
new	instances	if	required	in	the	event	of	outage	or	traffic	increases.
In
	addition,	I	shared	my	own	guidelines	for	selecting	the	right	deployment
platform:
1
.	
If	it	ain’t	broke,	don’t	fix	it.
2
.	
Give	up	as	much	control	as	you	feel	happy	with,	then	give	away	just	a
little	bit	more.	If	you	can	offload	all	your	work	to	a	good	PaaS	like
Heroku	(or	FaaS	platform),	then	do	it	and	be	happy.	Do	you	really	need
to	tinker	with	every	last	
setting?
3
.	
Containerizing	your	microservices	is	not	pain-free,	but	is	a	really	good
compromise	around	cost	of	isolation	and	has	some	fantastic	benefits	for
local	development,	while	still	giving	you	a	degree	of	control	over	what
happens.	Expect	Kubernetes	in	your	future.
It’s	also	important	to	understand	
your
	requirements.	Kubernetes	could	be	a	great
fit	for	you,	but	perhaps	something	simpler	would	work	just	as	well.	Don’t	feel
ashamed	for	picking	a	simpler	solution,	and	also	don’t	worry	too	much	about
offloading	work	to	someone	else—if	I	can	push	work	to	the	public	cloud,	then
I’ll	do	it,	as	it	lets	me	focus	on	my	own	work.
Above	all,	this	space	is	going	through	a	lot	of	churn.	I	hope	I’ve	given	you	some
insights	into	the	key	technology	in	this	space,	but	also	shared	some	principles
that	are	likely	to	outlive	the	current	crop	of	hot	technology.	Whatever	comes
next,	hopefully	you’re	much	more	prepared	to	take	it	in	stride.
In	the	next	chapter,	we’ll	be	going	deeper	into	a	topic	we	touched	on	briefly
here:	testing	our	microservices	to	make	sure	they	actually	work.
1
	Kief	Morris,	
Infrastructure	as	Code
,	2nd	edition	(Sebastopol:	O’Reilly,	2020).
2
	Senthil	Padmanabhan	and	Pranav	Jha,	“WebAssembly	at	eBay:	A	Real-World	Use	Case,”	
eBay,	May
22,	2019,	
https://oreil.ly/SfvHT
.
3
	Johnathan	Ishmael,	“Optimising	Serverless	for	BBC	Online,”	Technology	and	Creativity	at	the	BBC
9
--- PAGE 348 ---
(blog),	BBC,	January	26,	2021,	
https://oreil.ly/gkSdp
.
4
	I	might	not	have	come	up	with	this	rule.
5
	Daniel	Bryant,	“Apple	Rebuilds	Siri	Backend	Services	Using	Apache	Mesos,”	InfoQ,	May	3,	2015,
https://oreil.ly/NLUMX
.
6
	Nicole	Forsgren,	Jez	Humble,	and	Gene	Kim,	
Accelerate:	The	Science	of	Building	and	Scaling	High
Performing	Technology	Organizations
	(Portland,	OR:	IT	Revolution,	2018).
7
	This	quote	is	often	attributed	to	biologist	Paul	Ehrlich,	but	its	actual	origins	
are	unclear
.
8
	Sam	Newman,	
Monolith	to	Microservices
	(Sebastopol:	O’Reilly,	2019).
9
	I	might	not	have	come	up	with	this	rule.
--- PAGE 349 ---
Chapter	9.	
Testing
The	world	of	automated	testing	has	advanced	significantly	since	I	first	started
writing	code,	and	every	month	there	seems	to	be	some	new	tool	or	technique	to
make	it	even	better.	But	challenges	remain	regarding	how	to	effectively	and
efficiently	test	our	code’s	functionality	when	it	spans	a	distributed	system.	This
chapter	breaks	down	the	problems	associated	with	testing	finer-grained	systems
and	presents	some	solutions	to	help	you	make	sure	you	can	release	your	new
functionality	with	confidence.
Testing	covers	a	lot	of	ground.	Even	when	we	are	talking	
only
	about	automated
tests,	there	are	a	large	number	to	consider.	With	microservices,	we	have	added
another	level	of	complexity.	Understanding	what	different	types	of	tests	we	can
run	is	important	to	help	us	balance	the	sometimes-opposing	forces	of	getting	our
software	into	production	as	quickly	as	possible	versus	making	sure	our	software
is	of	sufficient	quality.	Given	the	scope	of	testing	as	a	whole,	I	am	not	going	to
attempt	a	broad	exploration	of	the	topic.	Instead,	this	chapter	is	primarily
focused	on	looking	at	how	testing	of	a	microservice	architecture	is	different
when	compared	to	less-distributed	systems	such	as	single-process	monolithic
applications.
Where	testing	is	done	has	also	shifted	since	the	first	edition	of	this	book.
Previously,	testing	was	predominantly	carried	out	before	the	software	got	to
production.	Increasingly,	though,	we	look	at	testing	our	applications	once	they
arrive	in	production—further	blurring	the	lines	between	development	and
production-related	activities;	this	is	something	we’ll	explore	in	this	chapter
before	exploring	testing	in	production	more	fully	in	
Chapter	10
.
Types	of	Tests
Like
	many	consultants,	I’m	guilty	of	occasionally	using	quadrants	as	a	way	of
categorizing	the	world,	and	I	was	starting	to	worry	this	book	wouldn’t	have	one.
Luckily,	Brian	Marick	came	up	with	a	fantastic	categorization	system	for	tests
that	fits	right	in.	
Figure	9-1
	shows	a	variation	of	Marick’s	quadrant	from	Lisa
1
--- PAGE 350 ---
Crispin	and	Janet	Gregory’s	book	
Agile	Testing
	that	helps	categorize	the
different	types	of	tests.
Figure	9-1.	
Brian	Marick’s	testing	quadrant.	Lisa	Crispin	and	Janet	Gregory,	
Agile	Testing:	A	Practical
Guide	for	Testers	and	Agile	Teams
,	©	2009
At
	the	bottom	of	the	quadrant,	we	have	tests	that	are	
technology	facing
—that	is,
tests	that	aid	the	developers	in	creating	the	system	in	the	first	place.	Property
tests	such	as	performance	tests	and	small-scoped	unit	tests	fall	into	this	category;
all	are	typically	automated.	The	top	half	of	the	quadrant	includes	those	tests	that
help	the	nontechnical	stakeholders	understand	how	your	system	works,	which
we	call	
business-facing
	tests.	These	could	be	large-scoped,	end-to-end	tests,	as
shown	in	the	Acceptance	Testing	quadrant	at	top	left;	or	manual	testing	(as
typified	by	user	testing	done	against	a	UAT	system),	as	shown	in	the	Exploratory
Testing	quadrant.
At
	this	point	it’s	worth	calling	out	the	fact	that	the	vast	majority	of	these	tests
focus	on	
preproduction	validation
.	Specifically,	we	are	using	these	tests	to
ensure	that	the	software	is	of	sufficient	quality	before	it	is	deployed	into	a
production	environment.	Typically,	these	tests	passing	(or	failing)	would	be	a
gating	condition	for	deciding	whether	the	software	should	be	deployed.
Increasingly,	we	are	seeing	the	value	of	testing	our	software	once	we	actually	get
into	a	production	environment.	We’ll	talk	more	about	the	balance	between	these
two	ideas	later	in	the	chapter,	but	for	now	it’s	worth	highlighting	a	limitation	of
Marick’s	quadrant	in	this	regard.
Each	type	of	test	shown	in	this	quadrant	has	a	place.	Exactly	how	much	of	each
test	you	want	to	do	will	depend	on	the	nature	of	your	system,	but	the	key	point	to
1

================================================================================
Ch9 Testing / contracts (PDF pages 360-390)
================================================================================

--- PAGE 360 ---
implement	both	mocks	and	stubs	is	useful.
While	I	feel	that	stubs	and	mocks	are	actually	fairly	well	differentiated,	I	know
the	distinction	can	be	confusing	to	some,	especially	when	some	people	throw	in
other	terms	like	
fakes
,	
spies
,	and	
dummies
.	Gerard	Meszaros	calls	all	of	these
things,	including	stubs	and	mocks,	
“Test	Doubles”
.
A	Smarter	Stub	Service
Normally,	for
	stub	services,	I’ve	rolled	them	myself.	I’ve	used	everything	from
the	Apache	web	server	or	nginx	to	embedded	Jetty	containers	or	even	command-
line-launched	Python	web	servers	to	launch	stub	servers	for	such	test	cases.	I’ve
probably	reproduced	the	same	work	time	and	time	again	in	creating	these	stubs.
An	old	Thoughtworks	colleague	of	mine,	Brandon	Byars,	has	potentially	saved
many	of	us	a	chunk	of	work	with	his	stub/mock	server	called	
mountebank
.
You	can	think	of	mountebank	as	a	small	software	appliance	that	is
programmable	via	HTTP.	The	fact	that	it	happens	to	be	written	in	NodeJS	is
completely	opaque	to	any	calling	service.	When	mountebank	launches,	you	send
it	commands	telling	it	to	create	one	or	more	“imposters,”	which	will	respond	on
a	given	port	with	a	specific	protocol	(currently	TCP,	HTTP,	HTTPS,	and	SMTP
are	supported),	and	what	responses	these	imposters	should	send	when	requests
are	sent.	It	also	supports	setting	expectations	if	you	want	to	use	it	as	a	mock.
Because	a	single	mountebank	instance	can	support	the	creation	of	multiple
imposters,	you	can	use	it	to	stub	out	multiple	downstream	microservices.
mountebank	does	have	uses	outside	of	automated	functional	testing.	Capital	One
made	use	of	mountebank	to	replace	existing	mocking	infrastructure	for	their
large-scale	performance	tests,	for	example.
One	limitation	of	mountebank	is	that	it	doesn’t	support	stubbing	for	messaging
protocols—for	example,	if	you	wanted	to	make	sure	that	an	event	was	properly
sent	(and	maybe	received)	via	a	broker,	you’ll	have	to	look	elsewhere	for	a
solution.	This	is	one	area	where	Pact	might	be	able	to	help—that’s	something
we’ll	look	at	more	shortly.
So	if	we	want	to	run	our	service	tests	for	just	our	
Customer
	microservice,	we	can
launch	the	
Customer
	microservice	and	a	mountebank	instance	that	acts	as	our
Loyalty
	microservice	on	the	same	machine.	And	if	those	tests	pass,	I	can	deploy
4
--- PAGE 361 ---
the	
Customer
	service	straightaway!	Or	can	I?	What	about	the	services	that	call
the	
Customer
	microservice—the	helpdesk	and	the	web	shop?	Do	we	know	if	we
have	made	a	change	that	may	break	them?	Of	course,	we	have	forgotten	the
important	tests	at	the	top	of	the	pyramid:	the	end-to-end	tests.
Implementing	(Those	Tricky)	End-to-End	Tests
In
	a	microservice	system,	the	capabilities	we	expose	via	our	user	interfaces	are
delivered	by	a	number	of	microservices.	The	point	of	the	end-to-end	tests	as
outlined	in	Mike	Cohn’s	pyramid	is	to	drive	functionality	through	these	user
interfaces	against	everything	underneath	to	give	us	some	feedback	on	the	quality
of	the	system	as	a	whole.
So,	to	implement	an	end-to-end	test,	we	need	to	deploy	multiple	microservices
together,	and	then	run	a	test	against	all	of	them.	Obviously,	this	test	has	a	much
larger	scope,	resulting	in	more	confidence	that	our	system	works!	On	the	other
hand,	these	tests	are	liable	to	be	slower	and	make	it	harder	to	diagnose	failure.
Let’s	dig	into	them	a	bit	more	using	our	previous	example	to	see	how	these	tests
can	fit	in.
Imagine	we	want	to	push	out	a	new	version	of	the	
Customer
	microservice.	We
want	to	deploy	our	changes	into	production	as	soon	as	possible	but	are
concerned	that	we	may	have	introduced	a	change	that	could	break	either	the
helpdesk	or	the	web	shop.	No	problem—let’s	deploy	all	our	services	together
and	run	some	tests	against	the	helpdesk	and	web	shop	to	see	if	we’ve	introduced
a	bug.	Now,	a	naive	approach	would	be	to	just	add	these	tests	onto	the	end	of	our
customer	service	pipeline,	as	in	
Figure	9-7
.
Figure	9-7.	
Adding	our	end-to-end	tests	stage:	the	right	approach?
So	far,	so	good.	But	the	first	question	we	have	to	ask	ourselves	is,	which	version
of	the	other	microservices	should	we	use?	Should	we	run	our	tests	against	the
versions	of	helpdesk	and	web	shop	that	are	in	production?	It’s	a	sensible
assumption—but	what	if	a	new	version	of	either	the	helpdesk	or	the	web	shop	is
--- PAGE 362 ---
queued	up	to	go	live?	What	should	we	do	then?
Here’s	another	problem:	if	we	have	a	set	of	
Customer
	end-to-end	tests	that
deploy	lots	of	microservices	and	run	tests	against	them,	what	about	the	end-to-
end	tests	that	the	other	microservices	run?	If	they	are	testing	the	same	thing,	we
may	find	ourselves	covering	lots	of	the	same	ground	and	may	duplicate	much	of
the	effort	to	deploy	all	those	microservices	in	the	first	place.
We	can	deal	with	both	of	these	problems	elegantly	by	having	multiple	pipelines
“fan-in”	to	a	single	end-to-end	test	stage.	Here,	when	one	of	a	number	of
different	builds	is	triggered,	it	can	result	in	shared	build	steps	being	triggered.
For	example,	in	
Figure	9-8
,	a	successful	build	for	any	of	the	four	microservices
would	end	up	triggering	the	shared	end-to-end	tests	stage.	Some	CI	tools	with
better	build	pipeline	support	will	enable	fan-in	models	like	this	out	of	the	box.
Figure	9-8.	
A	standard	way	to	handle	end-to-end	tests	across	services
So	any	time	one	of	our	services	changes,	we	run	the	tests	local	to	that	service.	If
those	tests	pass,	we	trigger	our	integration	tests.	Great,	eh?	Well,	there	are
unfortunately	many	disadvantages	to	end-to-end	testing.
Flaky	and	Brittle	Tests
As
	test	scope	increases,	so	too	does	the	number	of	moving	parts.	These	moving
--- PAGE 363 ---
parts	can	introduce	test	failures	that	do	not	show	that	the	functionality	under	test
is	broken	but	indicate	that	some	other	problem	has	occurred.	As	an	example,	if
we	have	a	test	to	verify	that	we	can	place	an	order	for	a	single	CD	and	we	are
running	that	test	against	four	or	five	microservices,	if	any	of	them	is	down,	we
could	get	a	failure	that	has	nothing	to	do	with	the	nature	of	the	test	itself.
Likewise,	a	temporary	network	glitch	could	cause	a	test	to	fail	without	saying
anything	about	the	functionality	under	test.
The	more	moving	parts	there	are,	the	more	brittle	our	tests	may	be	and	the	less
deterministic	they	are.	If	you	have	tests	that	
sometimes
	fail,	but	everyone	just
reruns	them	because	they	may	pass	again	later,	then	you	have	flaky	tests.	And
tests	covering	lots	of	different	processes	are	not	the	only	culprit.	Tests	that	cover
functionality	being	exercised	on	multiple	threads	(and	across	multiple	processes)
are	also	often	problematic;	a	failure	could	mean	a	race	condition	or	a	time-out,
or	that	the	functionality	is	actually	broken.	Flaky	tests	are	the	enemy.	When	they
fail,	they	don’t	tell	us	much.	We	rerun	our	CI	builds	in	the	hope	that	they	will
pass	again	later,	only	to	see	check-ins	pile	up,	and	suddenly	we	find	ourselves
with	a	load	of	broken	functionality.
When	we	detect	flaky	tests,	it	is	essential	that	we	do	our	best	to	remove	them.
Otherwise,	we	start	to	lose	faith	in	a	test	suite	that	“always	fails	like	that.”	A	test
suite	with	flaky	tests	can	become	a	victim	of	what	Diane	Vaughan	calls	the
normalization	of	deviance
—the	idea	that	over	time	we	can	become	so
accustomed	to	things	being	wrong	that	we	start	to	accept	them	as	being	normal
and	not	a	problem.
	This	very	human	tendency	means	we	need	to	find	and
eliminate	these	flaky	tests	as	soon	as	we	can	before	we	start	to	assume	that
failing	tests	are	OK.
In	“Eradicating	Non-Determinism	in	Tests,”
	Martin	Fowler	advocates	the
approach	that	if	you	have	flaky	tests,	you	should	track	them	down	and—if	you
can’t	immediately	fix	them—remove	them	from	the	suite	so	you	can	treat	them.
See	if	you	can	rewrite	them	to	avoid	testing	code	running	on	multiple	threads.
See	if	you	can	make	the	underlying	environment	more	stable.	Better	yet,	see	if
you	can	replace	the	flaky	test	with	a	smaller-scoped	test	that	is	less	likely	to
exhibit	problems.	In	some	cases,	changing	the	software	under	test	to	make	it
easier	to	test	can	also	be	the	right	way	forward.
5
6
--- PAGE 364 ---
Who	Writes	These	End-to-End	Tests?
With	the	tests	that	run	as	part	of	the	pipeline	for	a	specific	microservice,	the
sensible	starting	point	is	for	the	team	that	owns	that	service	to	write	those	tests
(we’ll	talk	more	about	service	ownership	in	
Chapter	15
).	But	if	we	consider	that
we	might	have	multiple	teams	involved,	and	the	end-to-end	tests	step	is	now
effectively	shared	among	the	teams,	who	writes	and	looks	after	these	tests?
I	have	seen	a	number	of	problems	caused	here.	These	tests	become	a	free-for-all,
with	all	teams
	granted	access	to	add	tests	without	any	understanding	of	the
health	of	the	whole	suite.	This	can	often	result	in	an	explosion	of	test	cases,
sometimes	
culminating
	in	the	test	snow	cone	we	talked	about	earlier.	I	have	also
seen	situations	in	which,	because	there	was	no	real	obvious	ownership	of	these
tests,	their	results	get	ignored.	When	they	break,	everyone	assumes	it	is	someone
else’s	problem,	so	they	don’t	care	whether	the	tests	are	passing.
One	solution	I’ve	seen	here	is	to	designate	certain	end-to-end	tests	as	being	the
responsibility	of	a	given	team,	even	though	they	might	cut	across	microservices
being	worked	on	by	multiple	different	teams.	I	first	learned	of	this	approach
from	Emily	Bache.
	The	idea	is	that	even	though	we	make	use	of	a	“fan	in”
stage	in	our	pipeline,	they	would	then	split	the	end-to-end	test	suite	into	groups
of	functionality	that	were	owned	by	different	teams,	as	we’ll	see	in	
Figure	9-9
.
Figure	9-9.	
A	standard	way	to	handle	end-to-end	tests	across	services
7
--- PAGE 365 ---
In	this	particular	example,	a	change	to	the	
Web Shop
	that	passes	the	service	test
stage	would	trigger	the	associated	end-to-end	tests,	with	the	suite	being	owned
by	the	same	team	that	owns	the	
Web Shop
.	Likewise,	any	changes	to	the
Helpdesk
	only	will	trigger	the	associated	end-to-end	tests.	But	changes	to	either
Customer
	or	
Loyalty
	trigger	
both
	sets	of	tests.	This	can	lead	us	to	a	situation	in
which	a	change	made	to	the	
Loyalty
	microservice	could	break	both	sets	of	end-
to-end	tests,	potentially	requiring	the	teams	who	own	these	two	test	suites	to
chase	the	owner	of	the	
Loyalty
	microservice	for	a	fix.	Although	this	model
helped	in	Emily’s	case,	as	we	can	see,	it	still	has	its	
challenges
.	Fundamentally,
it’s	problematic	to	have	a	team	own	responsibility	for	tests	where	people	from	a
different	team	can	cause	these	tests	to	break.
Sometimes	organizations	react	by	having	a	dedicated	team	write	these	tests.	This
can	be	disastrous.	The	team	developing	the	software	becomes	increasingly
distant	from	the	tests	for	its	code.	Cycle	times	increase,	as	service	owners	end	up
waiting	for	the	test	team	to	write	end-to-end	tests	for	the	functionality	it	just
wrote.	Because	another	team	writes	these	tests,	the	team	that	wrote	the	service	is
less	involved	with,	and	therefore	less	likely	to	know,	how	to	run	and	fix	these
tests.	Although	it	is	unfortunately	still	a	common	organizational	pattern,	I	see
significant	harm	done	whenever	a	team	is	distanced	from	writing	tests	for	the
code	it	wrote	in	the	first	place.
Getting	this	aspect	right	is	really	hard.	We	don’t	want	to	duplicate	effort,	nor	do
we	want	to	completely	centralize	this	to	the	extent	that	the	teams	building
services	are	too	far	removed	from	things.	If	you	can	find	a	clean	way	to	assign
end-to-end	tests	to	a	specific	team,	then	do	it.	If	not,	and	if	you	can’t	find	a	way
to	remove	end-to-end	tests	and	replace	them	with	something	else,	then	you’ll
likely	need	to	treat	the	end-to-end	test	suite	as	a	shared	codebase,	but	with	joint
ownership.	Teams	are	free	to	check	in	to	this	suite,	but	ownership	of	the	health
of	the	suite	has	to	be	shared	between	the	teams	developing	the	services
themselves.	If	you	want	to	make	extensive	use	of	end-to-end	tests	with	multiple
teams,	I	think	this	approach	is	essential,	and	yet	I	have	seen	it	done	only	rarely,
and	never	without	issues.	Ultimately,	I	am	convinced	that	at	a	certain	level	of
organizational	scale,	you	need	to	move	away	from	cross-team	end-to-end	tests
for	this	reason.
--- PAGE 366 ---
How	Long	Should	End-to-End	Tests	Run?
These	end-to-end	tests	can	take	a	while.	I	have	seen	them	take	up	to	a	day	to	run,
if	not	longer,	and	on	one	project	I	worked	on,	a	full	regression	suite	took	six
weeks!	I	rarely	see	teams	actually	curate	their	end-to-end	test	suites	to	reduce
overlap	in	test	coverage,	or	spend	enough	time	in	making	them	fast.
This	slowness,	combined	with	the	fact	that	these	tests	can	often	be	flaky,	can	be
a	major	problem.	A	test	suite	that	takes	all	day	and	often	has	breakages	that	have
nothing	to	do	with	broken	functionality	is	a	disaster.	Even	if	your	functionality	
is
broken,	it	could	take	you	many	hours	to	find	out—at	which	point	you	likely
would	have	already	moved	on	to	other	activities,	and	the	context	switch	in
shifting	your	brain	back	to	fix	the	issue	would	be	painful.
We	can	ameliorate	some	of	this	by	running	tests	in	parallel—for	example,
making	use	of	tools	like	Selenium	Grid.	However,	this	approach	is	not	a
substitute	for	actually	understanding	what	needs	to	be	tested	and	actively
removing
	tests	that	are	no	longer	needed.
Removing	tests	is	sometimes	a	fraught	exercise,	and	I	suspect	those	who	attempt
it	have	much	in	common	with	people	who	want	to	remove	certain	airport
security	measures.	No	matter	how	ineffective	the	security	measures	might	be,
any	conversation	about	removing	them	is	often	countered	with	knee-jerk
reactions	about	not	caring	about	people’s	safety	or	wanting	terrorists	to	win.	It	is
hard	to	have	a	balanced	conversation	about	the	value	something	adds	versus	the
burden	it	entails.	It	can	also	be	a	difficult	risk/reward	trade-off.	Do	you	get
thanked	if	you	remove	a	test?	Maybe.	But	you’ll	certainly	get	blamed	if	a	test
you	removed	lets	a	bug	through.	When	it	comes	to	the	larger-scoped	test	suites,
however,	this	is	exactly	what	we	need	to	be	able	to	do.	If	the	same	feature	is
covered	in	20	different	tests,	perhaps	we	can	get	rid	of	half	of	them,	as	those	20
tests	take	10	minutes	to	run!	What	this	requires	is	a	better	understanding	of	risk,
which	is	something	humans	are	famously	bad	at.	As	a	result,	this	intelligent
curation	and	management	of	larger-scoped,	high-burden	tests	
happens
	incredibly
infrequently.	Wishing	people	did	this	more	isn’t	the	same	thing	as	making	it
happen.
The	Great	Pile-Up
--- PAGE 367 ---
The	long	feedback	cycles	associated	with	end-to-end	tests	aren’t	just	a	problem
when	it	comes	to	developer	productivity.	With	a	long	test	suite,	any	breaks	take	a
while	to	fix,	which	reduces	the	amount	of	time	that	the	end-to-end	tests	can	be
expected	to	be	passing.	If	we	deploy	only	software	that	has	passed	through	all
our	tests	successfully	(which	we	should!),	it	means	fewer	of	our	services	get
through	to	the	point	of	being	deployable	into	production.
This	can	lead	to	a	pile-up.	While	a	broken	integration	test	stage	is	being	fixed,
more	changes	from	upstream	teams	can	pile	in.	Aside	from	the	fact	that	this	can
make	fixing	the	build	harder,	it	means	the	scope	of	changes	to	be	deployed
increases.	The	ideal	way	to	handle	this	is	to	not	let	people	check	in	if	the	end-to-
end	tests	are	failing,	but	given	a	long	test	suite	time,	that	is	often	impractical.	Try
saying,	“You	30	developers:	no	check-ins	until	we	fix	this	seven-hour-long
build!”	Allowing	check-ins	on	a	broken	end-to-end	test	suite,	though,	is	really
fixing	the	wrong	problem.	If	you	allow	check-ins	on	a	broken	build,	the	build
may	stay	broken	for	longer,	undermining	its	effectiveness	as	a	way	to	give	you
fast	feedback	about	the	quality	of	the	code.	The	right	answer	is	to	make	the	test
suite	faster.
The	larger	the	scope	of	a	deployment	and	the	higher	the	risk	of	a	release,	the
more	likely	we	are	to	break	something.	So	we	want	to	make	sure	we	can	release
small,	well-tested	changes	frequently.	When	end-to-end	tests	slow	down	our
ability	to	release	small	changes,	they	can	end	up	doing	more	harm	than	good.
The	Metaversion
With	the	end-to-end	tests	step,	it	is	easy	to	start	thinking,	
I	know	all	these
services	at	these	versions	work	together,	so	why	not	deploy	them	all	together?
This	very	quickly	becomes	a	conversation	along	the	lines	of,	
So	why	not	use	a
version	number	for	the	whole	system?
	To	quote	
Brandon	Byars
,	“Now	you	have
2.1.0	problems.”
By	versioning	together	changes	made	to	multiple	services,	we	effectively
embrace	the	idea	that	changing	and	deploying	multiple	services	at	once	is
acceptable.	It	becomes	the	norm;	it	becomes	OK.	In	doing	so,	we	cede	one	of	the
main	advantages	of	a	microservice	architecture:	the	ability	to	deploy	one	service
by	itself,	independently	of	other	services.
--- PAGE 368 ---
All	too	often,	the	approach	of	accepting	multiple	services	being	deployed
together	drifts	into	a	situation	in	which	services	become	coupled.	Before	long,
nicely	separate	services	become	increasingly	tangled	with	others,	and	you	never
notice,	because	you	never	try	to	deploy	them	by	themselves.	You	end	up	with	a
tangled	mess	where	you	have	to	orchestrate	the	deployment	of	multiple	services
at	once,	and	as	we	discussed	previously,	this	sort	of	coupling	can	leave	us	in	a
worse	place	than	we	would	be	with	a	single	monolithic	application.
This	is	bad.
Lack	of	Independent	Testability
We’ve
	come	back	frequently	to	the	topic	of	independent	deployability	being	an
important	property	to	facilitate	teams	working	in	a	more	autonomous	way,
allowing	for	software	to	be	shipped	more	effectively.	If	your	teams	work
independently,	it	follows	that	they	should	be	able	to	test	independently.	As	we’ve
seen,	end-to-end	tests	can	reduce	the	autonomy	of	teams	and	can	force	increased
levels	of	coordination,	with	the	associated	challenges	that	can	bring.
The	drive	toward	independent	testability	extends	to	our	use	of	the	infrastructure
associated	with	testing.	Often,	I	see	people	having	to	make	use	of	shared	testing
environments	in	which	tests	from	multiple	teams	are	executed.	Such	an
environment	is	often	highly	constrained,	and	any	issue	can	cause	significant
problems.	Ideally,	if	you	want	your	teams	to	be	able	to	develop	and	test	in	an
independent	fashion,	they	should	have	their	own	test	environments	too.
The
	research	summarized	in	
Accelerate
	found	that	high-performing	teams	were
more	likely	to	“do	most	of	their	testing	on	demand,	without	requiring	an
integrated	test	environment.”
Should	You	Avoid	End-to-End	Tests?
Despite
	the	disadvantages	just	outlined,	for	many	users	end-to-end	tests	can	still
be	manageable	with	a	small	number	of	microservices,	and	in	these	situations
they	still	make	a	lot	of	sense.	But	what	happens	with	3,	4,	10,	or	20	services?
Very	quickly	these	test	suites	become	hugely	bloated,	and	in	the	worst	case	they
can	result	in	a	Cartesian-like	explosion	in	the	scenarios	under	test.
8
--- PAGE 369 ---
In	fact,	even	with	a	small	number	of	microservices,	these	tests	become	difficult
when	you	have	multiple	teams	sharing	end-to-end	tests.	With	a	shared	end-to-
end	test	suite,	you	undermine	your	goal	of	independent	deployability.	Your
ability	as	a	team	to	deploy	a	microservice	now	requires	that	a	test	suite	shared	by
multiple	teams	passes.
What	is	one	of	the	key	problems	we	are	trying	to	address	when	we	use	the	end-
to-end	tests	outlined	previously?	We	are	trying	to	ensure	that	when	we	deploy	a
new	service	to	production,	our	changes	won’t	break	consumers.	Now,	as	we
covered	in	detail	in	
“Structural	Versus	Semantic	Contract	Breakages”
,	having
explicit	schemas	for	our	microservice	interfaces	can	help	us	catch	structural
breakages,	and	that	can	definitely	reduce	the	need	for	more	complex	end-to-end
tests.
However,	schemas	can’t	pick	up	semantic	breakages,	namely	changes	in
behavior
	that	cause	breakages	due	to	backward	incompatibility.	End-to-end	tests
absolutely	can	help	catch	these	semantic	breakagaes,	but	they	do	so	at	a	great
cost.	Ideally,	we’d	want	to	have	some	type	of	test	that	can	pick	up	semantic
breaking	changes	and	run	in	a	reduced	scope,	improving	test	isolation	(and
therefore	speed	of	feedback).	This	is	where	contract	tests	and	consumer-driven
contracts	come	in.
Contract	Tests	and	Consumer-Driven	Contracts	(CDCs)
With
	
contract	tests
,	a	team	whose	microservice	consumes	an	external	service
writes	tests	that	describe	how	it	expects	an	external	service	will	behave.	This	is
less	about	testing	your	own	microservice	and	more	about	specifying	how	you
expect	an	external	service	to	behave.	One	of	the	main	reasons	that	these	contract
tests	can	be	useful	is	that	they	can	be	run	against	any	stubs	or	mocks	you	are
using	that	represent	external	services—your	contract	tests	should	pass	when	you
run	your	own	stubs,	just	as	they	should	the	real	external	service.
Contract	tests
	become	very	useful	when	used	as	part	of	
consumer-driven
contracts
	(CDCs).	The	contract	tests	are	in	effect	an	explicit,	programmatic
representation	of	how	the	consumer	(upstream)	microservice	expects	the
producer	(downstream)	microservice	to	behave.	With	CDCs,	the	consumer	team
ensures	that	these	contract	tests	are	shared	with	the	producer	team	to	allow	the
producer	team	to	ensure	that	its	microservice	meets	these	expectations.
--- PAGE 370 ---
Typically,	this	is	done	by	having	the	downstream	producer	team	run	the
consumer	contracts	for	each	consuming	microservice	as	part	of	its	test	suite	that
would	be	run	on	every	build.	Very	importantly	from	a	test	feedback	point	of
view,	these	tests	need	to	be	run	only	against	a	single	producer	in	isolation,	so
they	can	be	faster	and	more	reliable	than	the	end-to-end	tests	they	might	replace.
As	an	example,	let’s	revisit	our	scenario	from	earlier.	The	
Customer
microservice	has	two	separate	consumers:	the	helpdesk	and	the	web	shop.	Both
of	these	consuming	applications	have	expectations	for	how	the	
Customer
microservice	will	behave.	In	this	example,	you	create	a	set	of	tests	for	each
consumer:	one	representing	the	helpdesk’s	expectations	of	the	
Customer
microservice,	and	another	set	representing	the	expectations	that	the	web	shop
has.
Because	these	CDCs	are	expectations	for	how	the	
Customer
	microservice	should
behave,	we	need	only	to	run	the	
Customer
	microservice	itself,	meaning	we	have
the	same	effective	test	scope	as	our	service	tests.	They’d	have	similar
performance	characteristics	and	would	require	us	to	run	only	the	
Customer
microservice	itself,	with	any	external	dependencies	stubbed	out.
A	good	practice	here	is	to	have	someone	from	the	producer	and	consumer	teams
collaborate	on	creating	the	tests,	so	perhaps	people	from	the	web	shop	and
helpdesk	teams	pair	with	people	from	the	customer	service	team.	Arguably,
consumer-driven	contracts	are	as	much	about	fostering	clear	lines	of
communication	and	collaboration,	where	needed,	between	microservices	and	the
teams	that	consume	them.	It	could	be	argued,	in	fact,	that	implementing	CDCs	is
just	making	more	explicit	the	communication	between	the	teams	that	must
already	exist.	In	cross-team	collaboration,	CDCs	are	an	explicit	reminder	of
Conway’s	law.
CDCs	sit	at	the	same	level	in	the	test	pyramid	as	service	tests,	albeit	with	a	very
different	focus,	as	shown	in	
Figure	9-10
.	These	tests	are	focused	on	how	a
consumer	will	use	the	service,	and	the	trigger	if	they	break	is	very	different	when
compared	with	service	tests.	If	one	of	these	CDCs	breaks	during	a	build	of	the
Customer
	service,	it	becomes	obvious	which	consumer	would	be	impacted.	At
this	point,	you	can	either	fix	the	problem	or	else	start	the	discussion	about
introducing	a	breaking	change	in	the	manner	we	discussed	in	
“Handling	Change
--- PAGE 371 ---
Between	Microservices”
.	So	with	CDCs,	we	can	identify	a	breaking	change
prior	to	our	software	going	into	production	without	having	to	use	a	potentially
expensive	end-to-end	test.
Figure	9-10.	
Integrating	consumer-driven	tests	into	the	test	pyramid
Pact
Pact
	is
	a	consumer-driven	testing	tool	that	was	originally	developed	in-house	at
realestate.com.au
	but	is	now	open	source.	Originally	just	for	Ruby	and	focused
only	on	HTTP	protocols,	Pact	now	supports	multiple	languages	and	platforms,
such	as	the	JVM,	JavaScript,	Python,	and	.NET,	and	can	also	be	used	with
messaging	
interactions
.
With	Pact,	you	start	by	defining	the	expectations	of	the	producer	using	a	DSL	in
one	of	the	supported	languages.	Then	you	launch	a	local	Pact	server	and	run	this
expectation	against	it	to	create	the	Pact	specification	file.	The	Pact	file	is	just	a
formal	JSON	specification;	you	could	obviously	handcode	this,	but	using	the
language-specific	SDK	is	much	easier.
A	really	nice	property	of	this	model	is	that	the	locally	running	mock	server	used
to	generate	the	Pact	file	also	works	as	a	local	stub	for	downstream	microservices.
By	defining	your	expectations	locally,	you	are	defining	how	this	local	stub
service	should	respond.	This	can	replace	the	need	for	tools	like	mountebank	(or
your	own	hand-rolled	stubbing	or	mocking	solutions).
--- PAGE 372 ---
On	the	producer	side,	you	then	verify	that	this	consumer	specification	is	met	by
using	the	JSON	Pact	specification	to	drive	calls	against	your	microservice	and
verify	responses.	For	this	to	work,	the	producer	needs	access	to	the	Pact	file.	As
we	discussed	earlier	in	
“Mapping	Source	Code	and	Builds	to	Microservices”
,	we
expect	the	consumer	and	producer	to	be	in	different	builds.	This	means	that	we
need	some	way	for	this	JSON	file,	which	will	be	generated	to	the	consumer
build,	to	be	made	available	by	the	producer.
You	could	store	the	Pact	file	in	your	CI/CD	tool’s	artifact	repository,	or	else	you
could	use	the	
Pact	Broker
,	which	allows	you	to	store	multiple	versions	of	your
Pact	specifications.	This	could	let	you	run	your	consumer-driven	contract	tests
against	multiple	different	versions	of	the	consumers,	if	you	wanted	to	test
against,	say,	the	version	of	the	consumer	in	production	and	the	version	of	the
consumer	that	was	most	recently	built.
The	Pact	Broker	actually	has	a	host	of	useful	capabilities.	Aside	from	acting	as	a
place	where	contracts	can	be	stored,	you	can	also	find	out	when	those	contracts
were	validated.	Also,	because	the	Pact	Broker	knows	about	the	relationship
between	the	consumer	and	producer,	it’s	able	to	show	you	which	microservices
depend	on	which	other	microservices.
Other	options
Pact
	isn’t	the	only	option	for	tooling	around	consumer-driven	contracts.	
Spring
Cloud	Contract
	is	one	such	example.	However,	it’s	worth	noting	that—unlike
Pact,	which	was	designed	from	the	beginning	to	support	different	technology
stacks—Spring	Cloud	Contract	is	really	only	useful	in	a	pure	JVM	
ecosystem.
It’s	about	conversations
In	Agile,	stories	are	often	referred	to	as	a	placeholder	for	a	conversation.	CDCs
are	just	like	that.	They	become	the	codification	of	a	set	of	discussions	about
what	a	service	API	should	look	like,	and	when	they	break,	they	become	a	trigger
point	to	have	conversations	about	how	that	API	should	evolve.
It	is	important	to	understand	that	CDCs	require	good	communication	and	trust
between	the	consumer	and	producing	service.	If	both	parties	are	in	the	same
team	(or	are	the	same	person!),	then	this	shouldn’t	be	hard.	However,	if	you	are
consuming	a	service	provided	with	a	third	party,	you	may	not	have	the	frequency
--- PAGE 373 ---
of	communication,	or	trust,	to	make	CDCs	work.	In	these	situations,	you	may
have	to	make	do	with	limited	larger-scoped	integration	tests	just	around	the
untrusted
	component.	Alternatively,	if	you	are	creating	an	API	for	thousands	of
potential	consumers,	such	as	with	a	publicly	available	web	service	API,	you	may
have	to	play	the	role	of	the	consumer	yourself	(or	perhaps	work	with	a	subset	of
your	consumers)	in	defining	these	tests.	Breaking	huge	numbers	of	external
consumers	is	a	pretty	bad	idea,	so	if	anything	the	importance	of	CDCs	is
increased!
The	Final	Word
As	outlined	in	detail	earlier	in	the	chapter,	end-to-end	tests	have	a	large	number
of	disadvantages	that	grow	significantly	as	you	add	more	moving	parts	under
test.	From	speaking	to	people	who	have	been	implementing	microservices	at
scale	for	a	while	now,	I	have	learned	that	most	of	them	over	time	remove	the
need	entirely	for	end-to-end	tests	in	favor	of	other	mechanisms	to	validate	the
quality	of	their	software—for	example,	the	use	of	explicit	schemas	and	CDCs,
in-production	testing,	or	perhaps	some	of	the	progressive	delivery	techniques
we’ve	discussed,	such	as	canary	releases.
You	can	view	the	running	of	end-to-end	tests	prior	to	production	deployment	as
training	wheels.	While	you	are	learning	how	CDCs	work	and	improving	your
production	monitoring	and	deployment	techniques,	these	end-to-end	tests	may
form	a	useful	safety	net,	where	you	are	trading	off	cycle	time	for	decreased	risk.
But	as	you	improve	those	other	areas,	and	as	the	relative	cost	of	creating	the	end-
to-end	tests	increases,	you	can	start	to	reduce	your	reliance	on	end-to-end	tests	to
the	point	that	they	are	no	longer	needed.	Ditching	end-to-end	tests	without	fully
understanding	what	you’ve	lost	is	probably	a	bad	idea.
Obviously	you’ll	have	a	better	understanding	of	your	own	organization’s	risk
profile	than	I,	but	I	would	challenge	you	to	think	long	and	hard	about	how	much
end-to-end	testing	you	really	need	to	do.
Developer	Experience
One
	of	the	significant	challenges	that	can	emerge	as	developers	find	the	need	to
work	on	more	and	more	microservices	is	that	the	developer	experience	can	start
--- PAGE 374 ---
to	suffer,	for	the	simple	reason	that	they	are	trying	to	run	more	and	more
microservices	locally.	This	often	arises	in	situations	in	which	a	developer	needs
to	run	a	large-scoped	test	that	bridges	multiple	nonstubbed	microservices.
How	quickly	this	becomes	an	issue	will	depend	on	a	number	of	factors.	How
many	microservices	a	developer	needs	to	run	locally,	which	technology	stack
those	microservices	are	written	in,	and	the	power	of	the	local	machine	can	all
play	a	part.	Some	technology	stacks	are	more	resource	intensive	in	terms	of	their
initial	footprint—JVM-based	microservices	come	to	mind.	On	the	other	hand,
some	tech	stacks	can	result	in	microservices	with	a	faster	and	more	lightweight
resource	footprint,	perhaps	allowing	you	to	run	many	more	microservices
locally.
One	approach	to	dealing	with	this	challenge	is	to	instead	have	developers	do
their	development	and	test	work	in	a	cloud	environment.	The	idea	is	that	you	can
have	many	more	resources	available	to	you	to	run	the	microservices	you	need.
Aside	from	the	fact	that	this	model	requires	that	you	always	have	connectivity	to
your	cloud	resources,	the	other	main	issue	is	that	your	feedback	cycles	can
suffer.	If	you	need	to	make	a	code	change	locally	and	upload	the	new	version	of
this	code	(or	a	locally	built	artifact)	to	the	cloud,	it	can	add	significant	delay	to
your	development	and	test	cycles,	especially	if	you	are	operating	in	a	part	of	the
world	with	more	constrained	internet	connectivity.
Full
	in-the-cloud	development	is	one	possibility	for	addressing	the	issue	of
feedback	cycles;	cloud-based	IDEs	like	Cloud9,	now	owned	by	AWS,	have
shown	that	this	is	possible.	However,	while	something	like	this	might	be	the
future	for	development,	it’s	certainly	not	the	present	for	the	vast	majority	of	us.
Fundamentally,	I	do	think	that	the	use	of	cloud	environments	to	allow	a
developer	to	run	more	microservices	for	their	development	and	test	cycles	is
missing	the	point,	resulting	in	more	complexity	than	is	needed,	in	addition	to
higher	costs.	Ideally,	you	want	to	aim	for	a	developer	needing	to	run	only	the
microservices	they	actually	work	on.	If	a	developer	is	part	of	a	team	that	owns
five	microservices,	then	that	developer	needs	to	be	able	to	run	those
microservices	as	effectively	as	possible,	and	for	fast	feedback	my	preference
would	always	be	for	them	to	run	locally.
But	what	if	the	five	microservices	your	team	owns	want	to	call	out	to	other
systems	and	microservices	that	are	owned	by	other	teams?	Without	them,	the
--- PAGE 375 ---
local	development	and	test	environment	won’t	function,	will	it?	Here	again,
stubbing	comes	to	the	rescue.	I	should	be	able	to	stand	up	local	stubs	that	mimic
the	microservices	that	are	out	of	scope	for	my	team.	The	only	real	microservices
you	should	be	running	locally	are	the	ones	you	are	working	on.	If	you	are
working	in	an	organization	where	you	are	expected	to	work	on	hundreds	of
different	microservices,	well	then,	you’ve	got	much	bigger	problems	to	deal	with
—this	is	a	topic	we’ll	explore	in	more	depth	in	
“Strong	Versus	Collective
Ownership”
.
From	Preproduction	to	In-Production	Testing
Historically,	most
	of	the	focus	of	testing	has	been	around	testing	our	systems
before
	we	get	to	production.	With	our	tests,	we	are	defining	a	series	of	models
with	which	we	hope	to	prove	whether	our	system	works	and	behaves	as	we
would	like,	both	functionally	and	nonfunctionally.	But	if	our	models	are	not
perfect,	we	will	encounter	problems	when	our	systems	are	used	in	anger.	Bugs
slip	into	production,	new	failure	modes	are	discovered,	and	our	users	use	the
system	in	ways	we	could	never	expect.
One	reaction	to	this	is	often	to	define	more	and	more	tests,	and	refine	our
models,	to	catch	more	issues	early	and	reduce	the	number	of	problems	we
encounter	with	our	running	production	system.	However,	at	a	certain	point	we
have	to	accept	that	we	hit	diminishing	returns	with	this	approach.	With	testing
prior	to	deployment,	we	cannot	reduce	the	chance	of	failure	to	zero.
The	complexity	of	a	distributed	system	is	such	that	it	can	be	infeasible	to	catch
all	potential	problems	that	might	occur	before	we	hit	production	itself.
Generically	speaking,	the	purpose	of	a	test	is	to	give	us	feedback	as	to	whether
or	not	our	software	is	of	sufficient	quality.	Ideally,	we	want	that	feedback	as	soon
as	possible,	and	we’d	like	to	be	able	to	spot	if	there	is	a	problem	with	our
software	before	an	end	user	experiences	that	issue.	This	is	why	a	lot	of	testing	is
done	before	we	release	our	software.
Limiting	ourselves	to	testing	only	in	a	preproduction	environment,	though,	is
hamstringing	us.	We	are	reducing	the	places	in	which	we	can	pick	up	issues,	and
we’re	also	eliminating	the	possibility	of	testing	the	quality	of	our	software	in	the
most	important	location—where	it	is	going	to	be	used.
--- PAGE 376 ---
We	can	and	should	also	look	to	apply	testing	in	a	production	environment.	This
can	be	done	in	a	safe	manner,	can	provide	higher-quality	feedback	than
preproduction	testing,	and,	as	we	see,	is	likely	something	you’re	already	doing,
whether	you	realize	it	or	not.
Types	of	In-Production	Testing
There
	is	a	long	list	of	different	tests	that	we	can	carry	out	in	production,	ranging
from	the	simple	to	the	complex.	To	start	off	with,	let’s	think	about	something	as
simple	as	a	ping	check	to	make	sure	that	a	microservice	is	live.	Simply	checking
to	see	if	a	microservice	instance	is	running	is	a	type	of	test—we	just	don’t	see	it
as	that,	as	it	is	an	activity	that	is	typically	handled	by	“operations”	people.	But
fundamentally,	something	as	simple	as	determining	whether	or	not	a
microservice	is	up	can	be	viewed	as	a	test—one	that	we	run	frequently	on	our
software.
Smoke	tests	are	another	example	of	in-production	testing.	Typically	done	as	part
of	the	deployment	activities,	a	smoke	test	ensures	that	the	deployed	software	is
operating	correctly.	These	smoke	tests	will	normally	be	done	on	the	real,	running
software	before	it	is	released	to	the	users	(more	on	that	shortly).
Canary	releases,	which	we	covered	in	
Chapter	8
,	are	also	a	mechanism	that	is
arguably	about	testing.	We	release	a	new	version	of	our	software	to	a	small
portion	of	users	to	“test”	that	it	works	correctly.	If	it	does,	we	can	roll	out	the
software	to	a	larger	part	of	our	user	base,	perhaps	in	a	fully	automated	way.
Another	example	of	in-production	testing	is	injecting	fake	user	behavior	into	the
system	to	make	sure	it	works	as	expected—for	example,	placing	an	order	for	a
fake	customer,	or	registering	a	new	(fake)	user	in	the	real	production	system.
This	type	of	test	can	sometimes	get	pushback,	because	people	are	worried	about
the	impact	it	might	have	on	the	production	system.	So	if	you	create	tests	like
this,	be	sure	to	make	them	safe.
Making	Testing	in	Production	Safe
If	you	decide	to	do	testing	in	production	(and	you	should!),	it’s	important	that
the	tests	not	cause	production	issues,	either	by	introducing	system	instability	or
by	tainting	production	data.	Something	as	simple	as	pinging	a	microservice
--- PAGE 377 ---
instance	to	make	sure	it	is	live	is	likely	to	be	a	safe	operation—if	this	causes
system	instability,	you	likely	have	pretty	serious	issues	that	need	addressing,
unless	you’ve	accidentally	made	your	health	check	system	an	internal	denial	of
service	attack.
Smoke	tests	are	typically	safe,	as	the	operations	they	carry	out	are	often	done	on
software	before	it	is	released.	As	we	explored	in	
“Separating	Deployment	from
Release”
,	separating	the	concept	of	deployment	from	release	can	be	incredibly
useful.	When	it	comes	to	in-production	testing,	tests	carried	out	on	software	that
is	deployed	into	production,	before	it	is	released,	should	be	safe.
People	tend	to	get	most	concerned	about	the	safety	of	things	like	injecting	fake
user	behavior	into	the	system.	We	don’t	really	want	the	order	to	be	shipped,	or
the	payment	made.	This	is	something	that	needs	due	care	and	attention,	and
despite	the	challenges,	this	type	of	testing	can	be	hugely	beneficial.	We’ll	return
to	this	in	
“Semantic	Monitoring”
.
Mean	Time	to	Repair	over	Mean	Time	Between	Failures?
So
	by	looking	at	techniques	like	blue-green	deployment	or	canary	releasing,	we
find	a	way	to	test	closer	to	(or	even	in)	production,	and	we	also	build	tools	to
help	us	manage	a	failure	if	it	occurs.	Using	these	approaches	is	a	tacit
acknowledgment	that	we	cannot	spot	and	catch	all	problems	before	we	actually
release	our	software.
Sometimes	expending	the	same	effort	on	getting	better	at	fixing	probems	when
they	occur	can	be	significantly	more	beneficial	than	adding	more	automated
functional	tests.	In	the	web	operations	world,	this	is	often	referred	to	as	the
trade-off	between	optimizing	for	
mean	time	between	failures	(MTBF)
	and
optimizing	for	
mean	time	to	repair	(MTTR)
.
Techniques	to	reduce	the	time	to	recovery	can	be	as	simple	as	very	fast	rollbacks
coupled	with	good	monitoring	(which	we’ll	discuss	in	
Chapter	10
).	If	we	can
spot	a	problem	in	production	early	and	roll	back	early,	we	reduce	the	impact	on
our	customers.
For	different	organizations,	the	trade-off	between	MTBF	and	MTTR	will	vary,
and	much	of	this	lies	with	understanding	the	true	impact	of	failure	in	a
production	environment.	However,	most	organizations	that	I	see	spending	time
--- PAGE 378 ---
creating	functional	test	suites	often	expend	little	to	no	effort	on	better	monitoring
or	recovering	from	failure.	So	while	they	may	reduce	the	number	of	defects	that
occur	in	the	first	place,	they	can’t	eliminate	all	of	them,	and	are	unprepared	for
dealing	with	them	if	they	pop	up	in	production.
Trade-offs	other	than	those	between	MTBF	and	MTTR	exist.	For	example,
whether	you	are	trying	to	work	out	if	anyone	will	actually	use	your	software,	it
may	make	much	more	sense	to	get	something	out	now,	to	prove	the	idea	or	the
business	model	before	building	robust	software.	In	an	environment	where	this	is
the	case,	testing	may	be	overkill,	as	the	impact	of	not	knowing	if	your	idea
works	is	much	higher	than	
having
	a	defect	in	production.	In	these	situations,	it
can	be	quite	sensible	to	avoid	testing	prior	to	production	altogether.
Cross-Functional	Testing
The
	bulk	of	this	chapter	has	been	focused	on	testing	specific	pieces	of
functionality,	and	how	this	differs	when	you	are	testing	a	microservice-based
system.	However,	there	is	another	category	of	testing	that	is	important	to	discuss.
Nonfunctional	requirements
	is	an	umbrella	term	used	to	describe	those
characteristics	your	system	exhibits	that	cannot	simply	be	implemented	like	a
normal	feature.	They	include	aspects	like	the	acceptable	latency	of	a	web	page,
the	number	of	users	a	system	should	support,	how	accessible	your	user	interface
should	be	to	people	with	disabilities,	or	how	secure	your	customer	data	should
be.
The	term	
nonfunctional
	never	sat	well	with	me.	Some	of	the	things	that	get
covered	by	this	term	seem	very	functional	in	nature!	A	previous	colleague	of
mine,	Sarah	
Taraporewalla
,	coined	the	phrase
	
cross-functional	requirements
(CFR)	instead,	which	I	greatly	prefer.	It	speaks	more	to	the	fact	that	these	system
behaviors	really	only	emerge	as	the	result	of	lots	of	cross-cutting	work.
Many	if	not	most	CFRs	can	really	only	be	met	in	production.	That	said,	we	can
define	test	strategies	to	help	us	see	if	we	are	at	least	moving	toward	meeting
these	goals.	These	sorts	of	tests	fall	into	the	Property	Testing	quadrant.	A	great
example	of	this	
type	of	test	is	the	performance	test,	which	we’ll	discuss	in	more
depth	shortly.
You	may	want	to	track	some	CFRs	at	an	individual	microservice	level.	For
--- PAGE 379 ---
example,	you	may	decide	that	the	durability	of	service	you	require	from	your
payment	service	is	significantly	higher,	but	you	are	happy	with	more	downtime
for	your	music	recommendation	service,	knowing	that	your	core	business	can
survive	if	you	are	unable	to	recommend	artists	similar	to	Metallica	for	10
minutes	or	so.	These	trade-offs	will	end	up	having	a	large	impact	on	how	you
design	and	evolve	your	system,	and	once	again	the	fine-grained	nature	of	a
microservice-based	system	gives	you	many	more	chances	to	make	these	trade-
offs.	When	looking	at	the	CFRs	a	given	microservice	or	team	might	have	to	take
responsibility	for,	it’s	common	for	them	to	surface	as	part	of	a	team’s	service-
level	objectives	(SLOs),	a	topic	we	explore	further	in	
“Are	We	Doing	OK?”
.
Tests	around	CFRs	should	follow	the	pyramid	too.	Some	tests	will	have	to	be
end-to-end,	like	load	tests,	but	others	won’t.	For	example,	once	you’ve	found	a
performance	bottleneck	in	an	end-to-end	load	test,	write	a	smaller-scoped	test	to
help	you	catch	the	problem	in	the	future.	Other	CFRs	fit	faster	tests	quite	easily.
I	remember	working	on	a	project	for	which	we	had	insisted	on	ensuring	that	our
HTML	markup	was	using	proper	accessibility	features	to	help	people	with
disabilities	use	our	website.	Checking	the	generated	markup	to	make	sure	that
the	appropriate	controls	were	there	could	be	done	very	quickly	without	the	need
for	any	networking	round	trips.
All	too	often,	considerations	about	CFRs	come	far	too	late.	I	strongly	suggest
looking	at	your	CFRs	as	early	as	possible	and	reviewing	them	regularly.
Performance	Tests
Performance	tests
	are	worth	calling	out	explicitly	as	a	way	of	ensuring	that	some
of	our	cross-functional	requirements	can	be	met.	When	decomposing	systems
into	smaller	microservices,	we	increase	the	number	of	calls	that	will	be	made
across	network	boundaries.	Where	previously	an	operation	might	have	involved
one	database	call,	it	may	now	involve	three	or	four	calls	across	network
boundaries	to	other	services,	with	a	matching	number	of	database	calls.	All	of
this	can	decrease	the	speed	at	which	our	systems	operate.	Tracking	down	sources
of	latency	is	especially	important.	When	you	have	a	call	chain	of	multiple
synchronous	calls,	if	any	part	of	the	chain	starts	acting	slowly,	everything	is
affected,	potentially	leading	to	a	significant	impact.	This	makes	having	some
way	to	performance	test	your	applications	even	more	important	than	it	might	be
--- PAGE 380 ---
with	a	more	monolithic	system.	Often	the	reason	this	sort	of	testing	gets	delayed
is	because	initially	there	isn’t	enough	of	the	system	there	to	test.	I	understand
this	problem,	but	all	too	often	it	leads	to	kicking	the	can	down	the	road,	with
performance	testing	often	only	being	done	just	before	going	live	for	the	first
time,	if	at	all!	Don’t	fall	into	this	trap.
As	with	functional	tests,	you	may	want	a	mix.	You	may	decide	that	you	want
performance	tests	that	isolate	individual	services,	but	start	with	tests	that	check
core	
journeys
	in	your	system.	You	may	be	able	to	take	end-to-end	journey	tests
and	simply	run	these	at	volume.
To	generate	worthwhile	results,	you’ll	often	need	to	run	given	scenarios	with
gradually	increasing	numbers	of	simulated	customers.	This	allows	you	to	see
how	latency	of	calls	varies	with	increasing	load.	This	means	that	performance
tests	can	take	a	while	to	run.	In	addition,	you’ll	want	the	system	to	match
production	as	closely	as	possible,	to	ensure	that	the	results	you	see	will	be
indicative	of	the	performance	you	can	expect	on	the	production	systems.	This
can	mean	that	you’ll	need	to	acquire	a	more	production-like	volume	of	data	and
may	need	more	machines	to	match	the	infrastructure—tasks	that	can	be
challenging.	Even	if	you	struggle	to	make	the	performance	environment	truly
production-like,	the	tests	may	still	have	value	in	tracking	down	bottlenecks.	Just
be	aware	that	you	may	get	false	negatives—or,	even	worse,	false	positives.
Due	to	the	time	it	takes	to	run	performance	tests,	it	isn’t	always	feasible	to	run
them	on	every	check-in.	It	is	a	common	practice	to	run	a	subset	every	day,	and	a
larger	set	every	week.	Whatever	approach	you	pick,	make	sure	you	run	tests	as
regularly	as	you	can.	The	longer	you	go	without	running	performance	tests,	the
harder	it	can	be	to	track	down	the	culprit.	Performance	problems	are	especially
difficult	to	resolve,	so	if	you	can	reduce	the	number	of	commits	you	need	to	look
at	to	see	a	newly	introduced	problem,	your	life	will	be	much	easier.
And	make	sure	you	also	look	at	the	results!	I’ve	been	very	surprised	by	the
number	of	teams	I	have	encountered	who	have	put	in	a	lot	of	work	implementing
tests	and	
running
	them	but	never	actually	check	the	numbers.	Often	this	is
because	people	don’t	know	what	a	“good”	result	looks	like.	You	really	need	to
have	targets.	When	you	provide	a	microservice	to	be	used	as	part	of	a	wider
architecture,	it’s	common	to	have	specific	expectations	that	you	commit	to
deliver—the	SLOs	I	mentioned	earlier.	If	as	part	of	this	you	commit	to	deliver	a
--- PAGE 381 ---
certain	level	of	performance,	then	it	makes	sense	for	any	automated	test	to	give
you	feedback	as	to	whether	or	not	you’re	likely	to	meet	(and	hopefully	exceed)
that	target.
In	lieu	of	specific	performance	targets,	automated	performance	tests	can	still	be
very	useful	in	helping	you	see	how	the	performance	of	your	microservice	varies
as	you	make	changes.	It	can	be	a	safety	net	to	catch	you	if	you	make	a	change
that	causes	a	drastic	degradation	in	performance.	So	an	alternative	to	a	specific
target	might	be	to	fail	the	test	if	the	delta	in	performance	from	one	build	to	the
next	varies	too	much.
Performance	testing	needs	to	be	done	in	concert	with	understanding	the	real
system	performance	(which	we’ll	discuss	more	in	
Chapter	10
),	and	ideally	you
would	use	the	same	tools	in	your	performance	test	environment	for	visualizing
system	behavior	as	those	you	use	in	production.	This	approach	can	make	it	much
easier	to	compare	like	with	like.
Robustness	Tests
A
	microservice	architecture	is	often	only	as	reliable	as	its	weakest	link,	and	as	a
result	it’s	common	for	our	microservices	to	build	in	mechanisms	to	allow	them
to	improve	their	robustness	in	order	to	improve	system	reliability.	We’ll	explore
this	topic	more	in	
“Stability	Patterns”
,	but	examples	include	running	multiple
instances	of	a	microservice	behind	a	load	balancer	to	tolerate	the	failure	of	an
instance,	or	using	circuit	breakers	to	programmatically	handle	situations	in
which	downstream	microservices	cannot	be	contacted.
In	such	situations	it	can	be	useful	to	have	tests	that	allow	you	to	re-create	certain
failures	to	ensure	that	your	microservice	keeps	operating	as	a	whole.	By	their
nature	these	tests	can	be	a	bit	more	tricky	to	implement.	For	example,	you	might
need	to	create	an	artificial	network	time-out	between	a	microservice	under	test
and	an	external	stub.	That	said,	they	can	be	worthwhile,	especially	if	you	are
creating	shared	functionality	that	will	be	used	across	multiple	microservices—
for	example,	using	a	default	service	mesh	implementation	to	handle	circuit
breaking.
Summary
--- PAGE 382 ---
Bringing
	this	all	together,	what	I	have	outlined	in	this	chapter	is	a	holistic
approach	to	testing	that	hopefully	gives	you	some	general	guidance	on	how	to
proceed	when	testing	your	own	systems.	To	reiterate	the	basics:
Optimize	for	fast	feedback,	and	separate	types	of	tests	accordingly.
Avoid	the	need	for	end-to-end	tests	that	span	more	than	one	team—
consider	using	consumer-driven	contracts	instead.
Use	consumer-driven	contracts	to	provide	focus	points	for
conversations	between	teams.
Try	to	understand	the	trade-off	between	putting	more	effort	into	testing
and	detecting	issues	faster	in	production	(optimizing	for	MTBF	versus
optimizing	for	MTTR).
Give	testing	in	production	a	try!
If	you	are	interested	in	reading	more	about	testing,	I	recommend	
Agile	Testing
	by
Lisa	Crispin	and	Janet	Gregory	(Addison-Wesley),	which	among	other	things
covers	the	use	of	the	testing	quadrant	in	more	detail.	For	a	deeper	dive	into	the
test	pyramid,	along	with	some	code	samples	and	more	tool	references,	I	also
recommend	“The	Practical	Test	Pyramid”	by	Ham	Vocke.
This	chapter	focused	mostly	on	making	sure	our	code	works	before	it	hits
production,	but	we	also	started	to	look	at	testing	our	application	once	it	reaches
production.	This	is	something	we	need	to	explore	in	a	lot	more	detail.	It	turns	out
that	microservices	cause	a	multitude	of	challenges	for	understanding	how	our
software	is	behaving	in	production—a	topic	we’ll	cover	in	more	depth	next.
1
	Lisa	Crispin	and	Janet	Gregory,	
Agile	Testing:	A	Practical	Guide	for	Testers	and	Agile	Teams
	(Upper
Saddle	River,	NJ:	Addison-Wesley,	2008).
2
	Mike	Cohn,	
Succeeding	with	Agile
	(Upper	Saddle	River,	NJ:	Addison-Wesley,	2009).
3
	Steve	Freeman	and	Nat	Pryce,	
Growing	Object-Oriented	Software,	Guided	by	Tests
	(Upper	Saddle
River,	NJ:	Addison-Wesley,	2009).
4
	Jason	D.	Valentino,	“Moving	One	of	Capital	One’s	Largest	Customer-Facing	Apps	to	AWS,”	Capital
One	Tech,	May	24,	2017,	
https://oreil.ly/5UM5W
.
5
	Diane	Vaughan,	
The	Challenger	Launch	Decision:	Risky	Technology,	Culture,	and	Deviance	at
NASA
	(Chicago:	University	of	Chicago	Press,	1996).
9
--- PAGE 383 ---
6
	Martin	Fowler,	“Eradicating	Non-Determinism	in	Tests,”	martinfowler.com,	April	14,	2011,
https://oreil.ly/7Ve7e
.
7
	Emily	Bache,	“End-to-End	Automated	Testing	in	a	Microservices	Architecture—Emily	Bache,”
NDC	Conferences,	July	5,	2017,	YouTube	video,	56:48,	NDC	Oslo	2017,	
https://oreil.ly/QX3EK
.
8
	Nicole	Forsgren,	Jez	Humble,	and	Gene	Kim,	
Accelerate:	The	Science	of	Building	and	Scaling	High
Performing	Technology	Organizations
	(Portland,	OR:	IT	Revolution,	2018).
9
	Ham	Vocke,	“The	Practical	Test	Pyramid,”	
martinfowler.com,	February	26,	2018,
https://oreil.ly/J7lc6
.
--- PAGE 384 ---
Chapter	10.	
From	Monitoring	to
Observability
As	I’ve	shown	so	far,	I	hope,	breaking	our	system	up	into	smaller,	fine-grained
microservices	results	in	multiple	benefits.	It	also,	as	we’ve	also	covered	in	some
depth,	adds	significant	sources	of	new	complexity.	In	no	situation	is	this
increased	complexity	more	evident	than	when	it	comes	to	understanding	the
behavior	of	our	systems	in	a	production	environment.	Very	early	on,	you’ll	find
that	the	tools	and	techniques	that	worked	well	for	relatively	simpler	single-
process	monolithic	applications	don’t	work	as	well	for	your	microservice
architecture.
In	this	chapter,	we’ll	look	at	the	challenges	associated	with	monitoring	our
microservice	architecture,	and	I’ll	show	that	although	new	tools	can	help,
fundamentally	you	may	need	to	shift	your	entire	mindset	when	it	comes	to
working	out	what	the	hell	is	going	on	in	production.	We’ll	also	talk	about	the
increased	focus	on	the	concept	of	observability—understanding	how	to	make	it
possible	to	ask	questions	of	our	system	so	we	can	work	out	what	is	going	wrong.
PRODUCTION	PAIN
You	won’t	truly	appreciate	the	potential	pain,	suffering,	and	anguish	caused	by	a	microservice
architecture	until	you	have	it	running	in	production	and	serving	real	traffic.
Disruption,	Panic,	and	Confusion
Picture
	the	scene:	it’s	a	quiet	Friday	afternoon,	and	the	team	is	looking	forward
to	slipping	out	early	to	the	pub	as	a	way	to	start	a	weekend	away	from	work.
Then	suddenly	the	emails	arrive.	The	website	is	misbehaving!	Twitter	is	ablaze
with	your	company’s	failings,	your	boss	is	chewing	your	ear	off,	and	the
prospects	of	a	quiet	weekend	vanish.
Few	things	sum	up	the	problem	up	as	well	as	the	following	tweet:
--- PAGE 385 ---
We	replaced	our	monolith	with	micro	services	so	that	every	outage	could	be
more	like	a	murder	mystery.
Tracking	down	what’s	gone	wrong,	and	what	caused	it,	is	our	first	port	of	call.
But	this	gets	difficult	if	we	have	a	long	list	of	suspects.
In	the	world	of	the	single-process	monolithic	application,	we	at	least	have	a	very
obvious	place	to	start	our	investigations.	Website	slow?	It’s	the	monolith.
Website	giving	odd	errors?	It’s	the	monolith.	CPU	at	100%?	Monolith.	A
burning	smell?	Well,	you	get	the	idea.
	Having	a	single	point	of	failure	makes
failure	investigation	somewhat	simpler!
Now	let’s	think	about	our	own	microservice-based	system.	The	capabilities	we
offer	our	users	are	served	from	multiple	microservices,	some	of	which
communicate	with	yet	more	microservices	to	accomplish	their	tasks.	There	are
lots	of	advantages	to	such	an	approach	(which	is	good,	as	otherwise	this	book
would	be	a	waste	of	time),	but	in	the	world	of	monitoring,	we	have	a	more
complex	problem	on	our	hands.
We	now	have	multiple	servers	to	monitor,	multiple	log	files	to	sift	through,	and
multiple	places	where	network	latency	could	cause	problems.	Our	surface	area
of	failure	has	increased,	and	so	have	the	things	that	need	to	be	investigated.	So
how	do	we	approach	this?	We	need	to	make	sense	of	what	otherwise	might	be	a
chaotic,	tangled	mess—the	last	thing	any	of	us	wants	to	deal	with	on	a	Friday
afternoon	(or	at	any	time,	come	to	that!).
Firstly,	we	need	to	monitor	the	small	things	and	provide	aggregation	to	allow	us
to	see	the	bigger	picture.	Then,	we	need	to	make	sure	we	have	tools	available	to
us	to	slice	and	dice	this	data	as	part	of	our	investigation.	Finally,	we	need	to	get
smarter	about	how	we	think	about	system	health,	by	embracing	concepts	like
testing	in	production.	We’ll	discuss	each	of	these	necessities	in	this	chapter.	Let’s
get	started.
Single	Microservice,	Single	Server
Figure	10-1
	presents
	a	very	simple	setup:	one	host	that	is	running	one	instance	of
a	microservice.	Now	we	need	to	monitor	it	in	order	to	know	when	something
goes	wrong,	so	we	can	fix	it.	So	what	should	we	look	for?
1
2
--- PAGE 386 ---
Figure	10-1.	
A	single	microservice	instance	on	a	single	host
First,	we’ll	want	to	get	information	from	the	host	itself.	CPU,	memory—all	of
these	things	can	be	useful.	Next,	we’ll	want	to	have	access	to	the	logs	from	the
microservice	instance	itself.	If	a	user	reports	an	error,	we	should	be	able	to	see
the	error	in	these	logs,	hopefully	giving	us	a	way	to	work	out	what	went	wrong.
At	this	point,	with	our	single	host,	we	can	probably	get	by	with	just	logging
locally	to	the	host	and	using	command-line	tools	to	look	at	the	log.
Finally,	we	might	want	to	monitor	the	application	itself—observing	it	from	the
outside.	At	a	bare	minimum,	monitoring	the	response	time	of	the	microservice	is
a	good	idea.	If	you	have	a	web	server	fronting	your	microservice	instance,	you
could	perhaps	just	look	at	the	logs	of	the	web	server.	Or	perhaps	you	can	get	a
bit	more	advanced,	using	something	like	a	health	check	endpoint	to	see	if	the
microservice	is	up	and	“healthy”	(we’ll	explore	what	this	means	later).
Time	passes,	loads	increase,	and	we	find	ourselves	needing	to	scale…
Single	Microservice,	Multiple	Servers
Now
	we	have	multiple	copies	of	the	service	running	on	separate	hosts,	as	shown
in	
Figure	10-2
,	with	requests	to	the	different	instances	distributed	via	a	load
--- PAGE 387 ---
balancer.	Things	start	to	get	a	bit	trickier	now.	We	still	want	to	monitor	all	the
same	things	as	before,	but	we	need	to	do	so	in	such	a	way	that	we	can	isolate	the
problem.	When	the	CPU	is	high,	is	it	a	problem	we	are	seeing	on	all	hosts,
which	would	point	to	an	issue	with	the	service	itself?	Or	is	it	isolated	to	a	single
host,	implying	that	the	host	itself	has	the	problem—perhaps	a	rogue	OS	process?
At	this	point,	we	still	want	to	track	the	host-level	metrics,	and	perhaps	maybe
even	alert	on	them	when	they	pass	some	sort	of	threshold.	But	now	we	want	to
see	what	they	are	across	all	hosts,	as	well	as	individual	hosts.	In	other	words,	we
want	to	aggregate	them	up	and	still	be	able	to	drill	down.	So	we	need	something
that	can	collect	all	these	metrics	from	across	the	hosts	and	allow	us	to	slice	and
dice	them.
Figure	10-2.	
A	single	service	distributed	across	multiple	hosts
Then	we	have	our	logs.	With	our	service	running	on	more	than	one	server,	we’ll
probably	get	tired	of	logging	into	each	box	to	look	at	it.	With	just	a	few	hosts,
though,	we	can	use	tools	like	SSH	multiplexers,	which	allow	us	to	run	the	same
commands	on	multiple	hosts.	With	the	help	of	a	big	monitor,	and	running	
grep
"Error"
	on	our	microservice	log,	we	can	find	our	culprit.	I	mean,	this	isn’t
great,	but	it	can	be	
good	enough
	for	a	while.	It	will	get	old	pretty	fast	though.
For	tasks	like	response	time	tracking,	we	can	capture	response	times	at	the	load
--- PAGE 388 ---
balancer	for	downstream	calls	to	microservices.	However,	we	also	have	to
consider	what	happens	if	the	load	balancer	is	turning	out	to	be	the	bottleneck	in
our	system—capturing	response	times	both	at	the	load	balancer	and	at	the
microservices	themselves	could	be	needed.	At	this	point,	we	probably	also	care	a
lot	more	about	what	a	healthy	service	looks	like,	as	we’ll	configure	our	load
balancer	to	remove	unhealthy	nodes	from	our	application.	Hopefully	by	the	time
we	get	here,	we	have	at	least	some	idea	of	what	healthy	looks	like.
Multiple	Services,	Multiple	Servers
In	
Figure	10-3
,	things
	get	much	more	interesting.	Multiple	services	are
collaborating	to	provide	capabilities	to	our	users,	and	those	services	are	running
on	multiple	hosts,	be	they	physical	or	virtual.	How	do	you	find	the	error	you’re
looking	for	in	thousands	of	lines	of	logs	on	multiple	hosts?	How	do	you
determine	if	a	server	is	misbehaving,	or	if	it	is	a	systemic	issue?	And	how	do
you	track	back	an	error	found	deep	down	in	a	call	chain	between	multiple	hosts
and	work	out	what	caused	it?
--- PAGE 389 ---
Figure	10-3.	
Multiple	collaborating	services	distributed	across	multiple	hosts
Aggregation	of	information—metrics	and	logs—play	a	vital	part	in	making	this
happen.	But	this	is	not	the	only	thing	we	need	to	consider.	We	need	to	work	out
how	to	sift	this	huge	influx	of	data	and	try	to	make	sense	of	it	all.	Above	all,	this
is	largely	about	a	mindset	shift,	from	a	fairly	static	landscape	of	monitoring	to
the	more	active	world	of	observability	and	testing	in	production.
Observability	Versus	Monitoring
--- PAGE 390 ---
We’re
	going	to	start	delving	into	how	we	begin	solving	some	of	the	problems
we’ve	just	outlined,	but	before	we	do,	I	think	it’s	important	that	we	explore	a
term	that	has	gained	a	lot	of	popularity	since	I	wrote	the	first	edition	of	this	book
—
observability
.
As	is	often	the	case,	the	concept	of	observability	has	been	around	for	decades
but	has	only	recently	come	to	software	development.	The	observability	of	a
system	is	the	extent	to	which	you	can	understand	the	internal	state	of	the	system
from	external	outputs.	It	typically	requires	a	more	holistic	understanding	of	your
software—seeing	it	more	as	a	
system
	rather	as	than	a	set	of	disparate	entities.
In	practice,	the	more	observable	a	system	is,	the	easier	it	will	be	for	us	to
understand	what	the	problem	is	when	something	goes	wrong.	Our	understanding
of	the	external	outputs	helps	us	track	down	the	underlying	issue	more	quickly.
The	challenge	is	that	often	we	will	need	to	create	these	external	outputs,	and	use
different	types	of	tools	to	understand	the	outputs.
Monitoring,	on	the	other	hand,	is	something	we	do.	We	
monitor
	the	system.	We
look	at	it.	Things	will	start	to	go	wrong	if	you	focus	on	just	the	monitoring—the
activity—without	thinking	about	what	you	expect	that	activity	to	achieve.
More	traditional	approaches	to	monitoring	would	have	you	think	in	advance
about	what	could	go	wrong	and	define	alerting	mechanisms	to	tell	you	when
these	things	happened.	But	as	the	system	becomes	increasingly	distributed,
you’ll	encounter	issues	that	would	never	have	occurred	to	you.	With	a	highly
observable	system,	you’ll	have	a	collection	of	external	outputs	that	you	can
interrogate	in	different	ways—the	concrete	outcome	of	having	an	observable
system	is	that	you	can	ask	questions	of	your	production	system	that	you	never
would	have	thought	to	ask	before.
We	can	therefore	see	monitoring	as	an	activity—something	we	do—with
observability	being	a	property	of	the	system.
The	Pillars	of	Observability?	Not	So	Fast
Some
	people	have	attempted	to	distill	down	the	idea	of	observability	to	a	few
core	concepts.	Some	have	focused	on	“the	three	pillars”	of	observability	in	the
form	of	metrics,	logging,	and	distributed	tracing.	New	Relic	even	coined	the
term	MELT	(metrics,	event,	logs,	and	traces),	which	hasn’t	really	caught	on,	but

================================================================================
Ch10 Observability (PDF pages 395-430)
================================================================================

--- PAGE 395 ---
aggregation	solution,	it	will	likely	find	the	other	aspects	of	a	microservice
architecture	too	much	to	handle.	So	consider	using	implementation	of	such	a
solution	as	a	way	of	testing	your	organization’s	readiness	for	the	rest	of	the
horror	that	will	follow.
BEFORE	ANYTHING	ELSE
Before	you	do	anything	else	to	build	out	your	microservice	architecture,	get	a	log	aggregation
tool	up	and	running.	Consider	it	a	prerequisite	for	building	a	microservice	architecture.	You’ll
thank	me	later.
Now,	it’s	also	true	to	say	that	log	aggregation	has	its	limitations,	and	over	time
you	may	well	want	to	look	at	more	sophisticated	tooling	to	augment	or	even
replace	some	of	what	log	aggregation	provides.	All	that	being	said,	it’s	still	an
excellent	place	to	start.
Common	format
If
	you	are	going	to	aggregate	your	logs,	you’ll	want	to	be	able	to	run	queries
across	them	to	extract	useful	information.	For	this	to	work,	it’s	important	that
you	pick	a	sensible	standard	log	format—otherwise	your	queries	will	end	up
being	difficult	or	perhaps	impossible	to	write.	You	want	the	date,	time,
microservice	name,	log	level,	and	so	on	in	consistent	places	in	each	log.
Some	log	forwarding	agents	give	you	the	ability	to	reformat	logs	prior	to
forwarding	them	to	your	central	log	store.	Personally,	I’d	avoid	this	wherever
possible.	The	issue	is	that	reformatting	logs	can	be	computationally	intensive,	to
the	point	where	I’ve	seen	real	production	issues	caused	by	CPU	being	tied	up
carrying	out	this	task.	It’s	much	better	to	change	the	logs	as	they	are	written	by
your	microservice	itself.	I’d	keep	the	use	of	log	forwarding	agents	to	do	log
reformatting	to	places	where	I	am	unable	to	change	the	source	log	format—for
example,	legacy	or	third-party	software.
I	would	have	thought	that	in	the	time	since	I	wrote	the	first	edition	of	this	book	a
common	industry	standard	for	logging	would	have	gained	traction,	but	that
doesn’t	seem	to	have	happened.	Lots	of	variations	seem	to	exist;	they	normally
involve	taking	the	standard	access	log	format	supported	by	web	servers	like
--- PAGE 396 ---
Apache	and	nginx	and	expanding	on	it	by	adding	more	columns	of	data.	The	key
thing	is	that	within	your	own	microservice	architecture	you	pick	a	format	that
you	standardize	on	internally.
If	you	are	using	a	fairly	simple	log	format,	you’ll	just	be	emitting	simple	lines	of
text	that	have	specific	pieces	of	information	at	specific	places	in	the	log	line.	In
Example	10-1
,	we	see	an	example	format.
Example	10-1.	
Some	example	logs
15-02-2020 16:00:58 Order INFO [abc-123] Customer 2112 has placed order 988827
15-02-2020 16:01:01 Payment INFO [abc-123] Payment $20.99 for 988827 by cust 2112
The	log	aggregation	tool	will	need	to	know	how	to	parse	this	string	to	extract	the
information	we	might	want	to	query	on—the	timestamp,	microservice	name,	or
log	level,	for	example.	In	this	example,	that	is	workable,	as	these	pieces	of	data
occur	in	static	places	across	our	logs—the	date	is	the	first	column,	the	time	is	the
second	column,	and	so	on.	This	is	more	problematic,	though,	if	we	want	to	find
log	lines	related	to	a	given	customer—the	customer	ID	is	in	both	log	lines	but	is
shown	in	different	locations.	This	is	where	we	might	start	thinking	about	writing
out	more	structured	log	lines,	perhaps	using	a	JSON	format,	so	we	can	find
information	like	a	customer	or	order	ID	in	a	consistent	location.	Again,	the	log
aggregation	tool	will	need	to	be	configured	to	parse	and	extract	the	required
information	from	the	log.	The	other	thing	to	note	is	that	if	you	log	JSON,	that
might	make	it	more	difficult	to	be	directly	read	by	a	human	without	additional
tooling	to	parse	out	the	required	values—simply	reading	the	log	in	a	plain	text
viewer	may	not	be	terribly	useful.
Correlating	log	lines
With
	a	large	number	of	services	interacting	to	provide	any	given	end-user
capability,	a	single	initiating	call	can	end	up	generating	multiple	downstream
service	calls.	For	example,	let’s	consider	an	example	in	MusicCorp,	as	shown	in
Figure	10-5
.	We	are	signing	up	a	customer	to	our	new	streaming	service.	The
customer	selects	their	chosen	streaming	package	and	clicks	submit.	Behind	the
scenes,	when	the	button	is	clicked	in	the	UI,	it	hits	the	
Gateway
	that	sits	on	the
perimeter	of	our	system.	This	in	turn	passes	the	call	on	to	the	
Streaming
microservice.	This	microservice	communicates	with	
Payment
	to	take	the	first
payment,	uses	the	
Customer
	microservice	to	update	the	fact	that	this	customer
--- PAGE 397 ---
now	has	streaming	enabled,	and	sends	an	email	to	the	customer	using	our	
Email
microservice	confirming	they	are	now	subscribed.
What	happens	if	the	call	to	the	
Payment
	microservice	ends	up	generating	an	odd
error?	We’ll	talk	at	length	about	handling	failures	in	
Chapter	12
,	but	consider	the
difficulty	of	diagnosing	what	happened.
The	problem	is	that	the	only	microservice	registering	an	error	is	our	
Payment
microservice.	If	we	are	lucky,	we	can	work	out	what	request	caused	the	problem,
and	we	may	even	be	able	to	look	at	the	parameters	of	the	call.	But	we	can’t	see
this	error	in	the	wider	context	in	which	it	occurs.	In	this	particular	example,	even
if	we	assume	that	each	interaction	generates	only	a	single	log	line,	we’d	have
five	log	lines	with	information	about	this	flow	of	calls.	Being	able	to	see	these
log	lines	grouped	together	can	be	incredibly	useful.
Figure	10-5.	
A	series	of	calls	across	multiple	microservices	related	to	registering	a	
customer
One	approach	that	can	be	useful	here	is	to	use	correlation	IDs—something	we
first	mentioned	in	
Chapter	6
	when	discussing	sagas.	When	the	first	call	is	made,
you	generate	a	unique	ID	that	will	be	used	to	correlate	all	subsequent	calls
--- PAGE 398 ---
related	to	the	request.	In	
Figure	10-6
,	we	generate	this	ID	in	the	
Gateway
,	and	it
is	then	passed	along	as	a	parameter	to	all	subsequent	calls.
Logging	of	any	activity	by	a	microservice	caused	by	this	incoming	call	will	be
recorded	along	with	the	same	correlation	ID,	which	we	place	in	a	consistent
location	in	each	log	line,	as	shown	in	
Example	10-2
.	This	makes	it	easy	to
extract	all	logs	associated	with	a	given	correlation	ID	at	a	later	date.
Example	10-2.	
Using	a	correlation	ID	in	a	fixed	location	in	a	log	line
15-02-2020 16:01:01 Gateway INFO [abc-123] Signup for streaming
15-02-2020 16:01:02 Streaming INFO [abc-123] Cust 773 signs up ...
15-02-2020 16:01:03 Customer INFO [abc-123] Streaming package added ...
15-02-2020 16:01:03 Email INFO [abc-123] Send streaming welcome ...
15-02-2020 16:01:03 Payment ERROR [abc-123] ValidatePayment ...
Figure	10-6.	
Generating	a	correlation	ID	for	a	set	of	calls
You	will,	of	course,	need	to	ensure	that	each	service	knows	to	pass	on	the
correlation	ID.	This	is	where	you	need	to	standardize	and	be	stronger	in
enforcing	this	across	your	system.	But	once	you	have	done	this,	you	can	actually
create	tooling	to	track	all	sorts	of	interactions.	Such	tooling	can	be	useful	in
tracking	down	event	storms	or	odd	corner	cases,	or	even	in	identifying	especially
--- PAGE 399 ---
costly	transactions,	as	you	can	picture	the	whole	cascade	of	calls.
Correlation	IDs	in	logs	are	the	sorts	of	things	that	don’t	seem	that	useful	initially,
but	trust	me—over	time,	they	can	be	
incredibly
	useful.	Unfortunately,	they	can
be	a	pain	to	retrofit	into	a	system.	It’s	for	this	reason	I	strongly	suggest	that	you
implement	correlation	IDs	in	logging	as	early	as	possible.	Logs	can	of	course
only	take	you	so	far	in	this	regard—some	sorts	of	problems	are	better	solved	by
distributed	tracing	tools,	which	we’ll	explore	shortly.	But	a	simple	correlation	ID
in	a	logfile	can	be	incredibly	useful	initially,	meaning	you	can	defer	the	use	of	a
dedicated	tracing	tool	until	your	system	is	complex	enough	to	warrant	it.
TIP
Once	you	have	log	aggregation,	get	correlation	IDs	in	as	soon	as	possible.	Easy	to	do	at	the
start	and	hard	to	retrofit	later,	they	will	drastically	improve	the	value	of	your	logs.
Timing
When
	looking	at	a	list	of	log	lines,	we	can	be	fooled	into	thinking	we	are	seeing
an	accurate	chronology	that	will	help	us	understand	what	happened	and	in	what
order.	After	all,	each	line	of	our	logs	includes	a	date	and	time—so	why	can’t	we
use	this	as	a	way	to	determine	the	order	in	which	things	occurred?	In	the
sequence	of	calls	in	
Example	10-2
,	we	see	a	log	line	from	
Gateway
,	followed	by
logs	from	
Streaming
,	
Customer
,	
Email
,	and	then	the	
Payment
	microservice.	We
might	conclude	that	this	is	the	order	in	which	calls	actually	happened.
Unfortunately,	we	can’t	always	count	on	that	to	be	true.
The	log	lines	are	generated	on	the	machines	where	these	microservice	instances
are	running.	After	being	written	locally,	at	some	point	these	logs	are	forwarded.
This	means	that	the	date	stamps	in	the	log	lines	are	generated	on	the	machines
where	the	microservices	are	running.	Unfortunately,	we	cannot	guarantee	that
the	clocks	on	these	different	machines	are	in	sync.	This	means	that	the	clock	on
the	machine	where	the	
Email
	microservice	is	running	might	be	a	few	seconds
ahead	of	the	clock	on	the	machine	where	
Payment
	is	running—this	could	result
in	it	looking	like	something	happened	in	the	
Email
	microservice	before	it
happened	in	the	
Payment
	microservice,	but	that	could	just	be	because	of	this
--- PAGE 400 ---
clock	skew.
The	problem	of	clock	skew	causes	all	sorts	of	issues	in	distributed	systems.
Protocols	do	exist	to	try	and	reduce	clock	skew	in	systems—the	Network	Time
Protocol	(NTP)	being	the	most	widely	used	example.	NTP,	however,	isn’t
guaranteed	to	work,	and	even	when	it	does	work,	all	it	can	do	is	reduce	skew,	not
eliminate	it.	If	you	have	a	sequence	of	calls	that	happen	quite	close	together,	you
may	find	that	even	a	second	of	skew	across	machines	is	enough	for	your
understanding	of	the	sequence	of	calls	to	be	totally	changed.
Fundamentally,	this	means	we	have	two	limitations	when	it	comes	to	time	in
logs.	We	can’t	get	fully	accurate	timing	information	for	the	overall	flow	of	calls,
nor	can	we	understand	causality.
In	terms	of	helping	to	solve	this	problem	so	we	can	understand	the	true	order	of
things,	Leslie	Lamport
	has	proposed	a	logical	clock	system,	where	a	counter	is
used	to	keep	track	of	the	order	of	calls.	You	could	implement	a	similar	scheme	if
you	wanted	to,	and	a	number	of	variations	to	this	scheme	exist.	Personally,
though,	if	I	wanted	more	accurate	information	regarding	the	order	of	calls,	and	I
also	wanted	more	accurate	timing,	I’d	be	more	inclined	to	make	use	of	a
distributed	tracing	tool,	which	will	address	both	issues	for	me.	We’ll	look	at
distributed	tracing	in	more	depth	later	in	this	chapter.
Implementations
Few
	spaces	in	our	industry	are	as	contested	as	that	of	log	aggregation,	and	a
large	variety	of	solutions	exist	in	this	space.
A
	popular	open	source	toolchain	for	log	aggregation	has	been	to	make	use	of	a
log	forwarding	agent	like	
Fluentd
	to	send	logs	to	
Elasticsearch
,	using	
Kibana
	as
a	way	to	slice	and	dice	the	resulting	stream	of	logs.	The	biggest	challenge	with
this	stack	tends	to	be	the	overhead	of	managing	Elasticsearch	itself,	but	this	may
be	less	of	an	issue	if	you	need	to	run	Elasticsearch	for	other	purposes,	or	if	you
make	use	of	a	managed	provider.	I	will	sound	two	additional	notes	of	caution
about	the	use	of	this	toolchain.	Firstly,	a	lot	of	effort	has	gone	into	marketing
Elasticsearch	as	a	database.	Personally,	this	has	always	sat	uneasily	with	me.
Taking	something	that	was	always	billed	as	a	search	index	and	rebadging	it	as	a
database	can	be	highly	problematic.	We	implicitly	make	assumptions	about	how
databases	act	and	behave,	and	we	treat	them	accordingly,	regarding	them	as	a
4
--- PAGE 401 ---
source	of	truth	for	vital	data.	But	by	design,	a	search	index	isn’t	the	source	of
truth;	it’s	a	projection	of	the	source	of	truth.	Elasticsearch	has	suffered	from
problems	in	the	past	that	give	me	pause	for	thought.
	While	I’m	sure	many	of
these	issues	have	been	resolved,	my	own	reading	of	these	problems	has	made	me
cautious	regarding	the	use	of	Elasticseach	in	certain	situations,	and	certainly
when	considering	it	as	a	database.	Having	a	search	index	that	might	occasionally
lose	data	isn’t	an	issue	if	you	can	already	re-index.	But	treating	it	like	a	database
is	another	thing	entirely.	If	I	were	using	this	stack	and	couldn’t	afford	to	lose	log
information,	I	would	want	to	ensure	that	I	can	re-index	the	original	logs	if
anything	went	wrong.
The	second	set	of	concerns	is	less	about	the	technical	aspects	of	Elasticsearch
and	Kibana	and	more	about	the	behaviors	of	Elastic,	the	company	behind	these
projects.	Recently,	Elastic	made	a	decision	to	change	the	license	for	the	source
code	for	both	the	core	Elasticsearch	database	and	Kibana	from	a	widely	used	and
accepted	open	source	license	(Apache	2.0)	to	a	non–open	source	Server	Side
Public	License	(SSPL).
	The
	driver	for	this	change	in	license	seems	to	have	been
the	fact	that	Elastic	is	frustrated	that	organizations	like	AWS	have	made
successful	commercial	offerings	building	on	this	technology	that	have	undercut
Elastic’s	own	commercial	offerings.	Aside	from	the	concerns	that	the	SSPL	can
be	“viral”	in	nature	(in	a	similar	way	to	the	GNU	General	Public	License),	this
decision	has	left	many	incensed.	Well	over	a	thousand	people	contributed	code
to	Elasticsearch	under	the	expectation	that	they	were	donating	to	an	open	source
product.	There	is	the	added	irony	that	Elasticsearch	itself,	and	therefore	much	of
the	Elastic	company	as	a	whole,	was	built	on	technology	from	the	
Lucene
	open
source	project.	At	the	time	of	writing,	AWS	had	predictably	committed	to
creating	and	maintaining	an	open	source	fork	of	both	Elasticsearch	and	Kibana
under	the	previously	used	open	source	Apache	2.0	license.
In	many	ways,	Kibana	was	a	laudable	attempt	to	create	an	open	source
alternative	to	expensive	commercial	options	like	Splunk.	As	good	as	Splunk
seems	to	be,	every	Splunk	customer	I’ve	spoken	to	has	also	told	me	that	it	can	be
eye-wateringly	expensive,	in	terms	of	both	the	licensing	fees	and	the	hardware
costs.	Many	of	these	customers	do	see	its	value,	though.	That	said,	there	are	a
wealth	of	commercial	options	out	there.	I’m	personally	a	big	fan	of	
Humio
,
many	people	like	to	use	
Datadog
	for	log	aggregation,	and	you	have	basic	but
workable	out-of-the-box	solutions	for	log	aggregation	with	some	public	cloud
5
6
--- PAGE 402 ---
providers,	such	as
	CloudWatch	for	AWS	or
	Application	Insights	for	Azure.
The	reality	is	that	you	have	a	huge	array	of	options	in	this	space,	from	open
source	to	commercial,	and	from	self-hosted	to	fully	hosted.	If	you	want	to	build
a	microservice	architecture,	this	isn’t	one	of	the	things	you	should	find	difficult
to	get	sorted	out.
Shortcomings
Logs
	are	a	fantastic	and	easy	way	to	rapidly	get	information	out	of	your	running
systems.	I	remain	convinced	that	for	an	early-stage	microservice	architecture,
there	are	few	places	that	will	return	investment	more	than	logs	when	it	comes	to
improving	visibility	of	your	application	in	production.	They’ll	become	the
lifeblood	for	information	gathering	and	diagnosis.	That	said,	you	do	need	to	be
aware	of	some	potentially	significant	challenges	with	logs.
Firstly,	as	we’ve	already	touched	on,	due	to	clock	skew	they	can’t	always	be
relied	on	to	help	you	understand	the	order	in	which	calls	occurred.	This	clock
skew	between	machines	also	means	the	accurate	timing	of	a	sequence	of	calls
will	be	problematic,	potentially	limiting	the	logs’	usefulness	in	tracking	down
latency	bottlenecks.
The	main	issue	with	logs,	though,	is	that	as	you	have	more	microservices	and
more	calls,	you	end	up	generating	a	LOT	of	data.	Loads.	Huge	quantities.	This
can	result	in	higher	costs	in	terms	of	requiring	more	hardware,	and	it	can	also
increase	the	fee	you	pay	to	your	service	provider	(some	providers	charge	by
use).	And	depending	on	how	your	log	aggregation	toolchain	is	built,	this	can
also	result	in	scaling	challenges.	Some	log	aggregation	solutions	try	and	create
an	index	when	receiving	log	data	to	make	queries	faster.	The	problem	is	that
maintaining	an	index	is	computationally	expensive—and	the	more	logs	you
receive,	and	the	larger	the	index	grows,	the	more	problematic	this	can	become.
This	results	in	the	need	to	be	more	tailored	in	what	you	log	to	reduce	this	issue,
which	in	turn	can	generate	more	work	and	which	runs	the	risk	that	you	might	put
off	logging	information	that	would	otherwise	be	valuable.	I	spoke	to	a	team	that
managed	the	Elasticsearch	cluster	for	SaaS-based	developer	tooling;	it	found	that
the	largest	Elasticsearch	cluster	it	could	happily	run	would	only	be	able	to	handle
six	weeks	of	logging	for	one	of	its	products,	causing	the	team	to	constantly	have
to	shift	data	around	to	keep	things	manageable.	Part	of	the	reason	I	like	Humio	is
--- PAGE 403 ---
that	this	was	something	its	developers	built	for—rather	than	maintaining	an
index,	they	focus	on	efficient	and	scalable	ingestion	of	data	with	some	smart
solutions	to	try	and	keep	query	times	down.
Even	if	you	do	have	a	solution	that	can	store	the	volume	of	logs	you	want,	these
logs	can	end	up	containing	a	lot	of	valuable	and	sensitive	information.	This
means	that	you	might	have	to	limit	access	to	the	logs	(which	could	further
complicate	your	efforts	to	have	collective	ownership	of	your	microservices	in
production),	and	the	logs	could	be	a	target	for	malicious	parties.	You	might
therefore	need	to	consider	not	logging	certain	types	of	information	(as	we’ll
touch	on	in	
“Be	frugal”
,	if	
you	don’t	store
	data,	it	can’t	be	stolen)	to	reduce	the
impact	of	access	by	unauthorized	parties.
Metrics	Aggregation
As
	with	the	challenge	of	looking	at	logs	for	different	hosts,	we	need	to	look	at
better	ways	to	gather	and	view	data	about	our	systems.	It	can	be	hard	to	know
what	“good”	looks	like	when	we’re	looking	at	metrics	for	a	more	complex
system.	Our	website	is	seeing	nearly	50	4XX	HTTP	error	codes	per	second.	Is
that	bad?	The	CPU	load	on	the	catalog	service	has	increased	by	20%	since
lunch;	has	something	gone	wrong?	The	secret	to	knowing	when	to	panic	and
when	to	relax	is	to	gather	metrics	about	how	your	system	behaves	over	a	long-
enough	period	of	time	that	clear	patterns	emerge.
In	a	more	complex	environment,	we’ll	be	provisioning	new	instances	of	our
microservices	pretty	frequently,	so	we	want	the	system	we	pick	to	make	it	very
easy	to	collect	metrics	from	new	hosts.	We’ll	want	to	be	able	to	look	at	a	metric
aggregated	for	the	whole	system—for	example,	the	average	CPU	load—but
we’ll	also	want	to	aggregate	that	metric	for	all	the	instances	of	a	given	service,
or	even	for	a	single	instance	of	that	service.	That	means	we’ll	need	to	be	able	to
associate	metadata	with	the	metric	to	allow	us	to	infer	this	structure.
Another	key	benefit	of	understanding	your	trends	is	when	it	comes	to	capacity
planning.	Are	we	reaching	our	limit?	How	long	until	we	need	more	hosts?	In	the
past	when	we	bought	physical	hosts,	this	was	often	an	annual	job.	In	the	new	age
of	on-demand	computing	provided	by	infrastructure	as	a	service	(IaaS)	vendors,
we	can	scale	up	or	down	in	minutes,	if	not	seconds.	This	means	that	if	we
understand	our	usage	patterns,	we	can	make	sure	we	have	just	enough
--- PAGE 404 ---
infrastructure	to	serve	our	needs.	The	smarter	we	are	in	tracking	our	trends	and
knowing	what	to	do	with	them,	the	more	cost	effective	and	responsive	our
systems	can	be.
Due	to	the	nature	of	this	sort	of	data,	we	may	want	to	store	and	report	these
metrics	at	different	resolutions.	For	example,	I	might	want	a	CPU	sample	for	my
servers	at	the	resolution	of	one	sample	every	10	seconds	for	the	last	30	minutes,
in	order	to	better	react	to	a	situation	that	is	currently	unfolding.	On	the	other
hand,	the	CPU	samples	from	my	servers	from	last	month	are	likely	needed	only
for	general	trend	analysis,	so	I	might	be	happy	with	calculating	an	average	CPU
sample	on	a	per-hour	basis.	This	is	often	done	on	standard	metrics	platforms	to
help	keep	query	times	down	and	also	reduce	data	storage.	For	something	as
simple	as	a	CPU	rate	this	might	be	fine,	but	the	process	of	aggregating	old	data
does	cause	us	to	lose	information.	The	issue	with	the	need	for	this	data	to	be
aggregated	is	that	you	often	have	to	decide	what	to	aggregate	beforehand—you
have	to	guess	in	advance	as	to	what	information	it’s	OK	to	lose.
Standard	metrics	tools	can	be	absolutely	fine	for	understanding	trends	or	simple
failure	modes.	They	can	be	vital,	in	fact.	But	they	often	don’t	help	us	make	our
systems	more	observable,	as	they	restrict	the	sorts	of	questions	we	want	to	ask.
Things	start	getting	interesting	when	we	go	from	simple	pieces	of	information
like	response	time,	CPU,	or	disk	space	use	to	thinking	more	broadly	about	the
types	of	information	we	want	to	capture.
Low	versus	high	cardinality
Many
	tools,	especially	the	more	recent	ones,	have	been	built	to	accommodate	the
storage	and	retrieval	of	high-cardinality	data.	There	are	a	number	of	ways	to
describe	cardinality,	but	you	can	think	of	it	as	the	number	of	fields	that	can	be
easily	queried	in	a	given	data	point.	The	more	potential	fields	we	might	want	to
query	of	our	data,	the	higher	the	cardinality	we	need	to	support.	Fundamentally,
this	gets	more	problematic	with	time-series	databases	for	reasons	that	I	won’t
expand	on	here	but	which	are	related	to	the	way	many	of	these	systems	are	built.
For	example,	I	might	want	to	capture	and	query	on	the	name	of	the	microservice,
customer	ID,	request	ID,	build	number	of	software,	and	product	ID,	all	over
time.	Then	I	decide	to	capture	information	about	the	machine	at	that	stage—the
OS,	
system
	architecture,	cloud	provider,	and	so	on.	I	could	need	to	capture	all	of
--- PAGE 405 ---
that	information	for	each	data	point	I	collect.	As	I	increase	the	number	of	things
I	might	want	to	query	on,	the	cardinality	increases,	and	the	more	problems
systems	will	have	that	aren’t	built	with	this	use	case	in	mind.	As	Charity
Majors,
	founder	of	Honeycomb,	explains:
It	boils	down,	essentially,	to	the	metric.	The	metric	is	a	dot	of	data,	a	single
number	with	a	name	and	some	identifying	tags.	All	of	the	context	you	can	get
has	to	be	stuffed	into	those	tags.	But	the	write	explosion	of	writing	all	those
tags	is	expensive	because	of	how	metrics	are	stored	on	disk.	Storing	a	metric
is	dirt	cheap,	but	storing	a	tag	is	expensive;	and	storing	lots	of	tags	per	metric
will	bring	your	storage	engine	to	a	halt	fast.
Practically	speaking,	systems	built	with	low	cardinality	in	mind	will	struggle
greatly	if	you	try	to	put	higher-cardinality	data	into	them.	Systems	like
Prometheus,	for	example,	were	built	to	store	fairly	simple	pieces	of	information,
such	as	the	CPU	rate	for	a	given	machine.	In	many	ways,	we	can	see	Prometheus
and	similar	tools	as	being	a	great	implementation	of	traditional	metrics	storage
and	querying.	But	the	lack	of	ability	to	support	higher-cardinality	data	can	be	a
limiting	factor.	The	Prometheus	devs	are	quite	
open	about	this	limitation
:
Remember	that	every	unique	combination	of	key-value	label	pairs	represents	a
new	time	series,	which	can	dramatically	increase	the	amount	of	data	stored.
Do	not	use	labels	to	store	dimensions	with	high	cardinality	(many	different
label	values),	such	as	user	IDs,	email	addresses,	or	other	unbounded	sets	of
values.
Systems	that	are	capable	of	handling	high	cardinality	are	more	able	to	allow	you
to	ask	a	host	of	different	questions	of	your	systems—often	questions	you	didn’t
know	you	needed	to	ask	beforehand.	Now,	this	might	be	a	hard	concept	to	grasp,
especially	if	you’ve	been	managing	your	single-process	monolithic	system	quite
happily	with	more	“conventional”	tools.	Even	those	people	with	larger	systems
have	made	do	with	lower-cardinality	systems,	often	because	they	had	no	choice.
But	as	your	system	increases	in	complexity,	you’ll	need	to	improve	the	quality	of
the	outputs	your	system	provides	to	allow	you	to	improve	its	observability.	This
means	collecting	more	information	and	having	tooling	that	allows	you	to	slice
and	dice	this	data.
Implementations
7
--- PAGE 406 ---
Since
	the	first	edition	of	this	book,	Prometheus	has	become	a	popular	open
source	tool	for	the	use	of	gathering	and	aggregating	metrics,	and	in	cases	in
which	I	might	have	previously	recommended	the	use	of	Graphite	(which	got	my
recommendation	in	the	first	edition),	Prometheus	can	be	a	sensible	replacement.
The	commercial	space	has	also	greatly	expanded	in	this	area,	with	new	vendors
and	old	vendors	alike	building	or	retooling	existing	solutions	to	target
microservice	users.
Bear
	in	mind,	though,	my	concerns	regarding	low-	versus	high-cardinality	data.
Systems	built	to	handle	low-cardinality	data	will	be	very	difficult	to	retrofit	to
support	high-cardinality	storage	and	processing.	If	you	are	looking	for	systems
that	are	able	to	store	and	manage	high	cardinality	data,	allowing	for	much	more
sophisticated	observation	(and	questioning)	of	your	system’s	behavior,	I’d
strongly	suggest	looking	at	either	
Honeycomb
	or	
Lightstep
.	Although	these	tools
are	often	seen	as	solutions	to	distributed	tracing	(which	we’ll	explore	more
later),	they	are	highly	capable	at	storing,	filtering,	and	querying	high-cardinality
data.
MONITORING	AND	OBSERVABILITY	SYSTEMS	ARE
PRODUCTION	SYSTEMS
With
	a	growing	set	of	tools	to	help	us	manage	our	microservice	architecture,
we	must	remember	that	these	tools	are	themselves	production	systems.	Log
aggregation	platforms,	distributed	tracing	tools,	alerting	systems—they	all
are	mission-critical	applications	that	are	just	as	vital	as	our	own	software,	if
not	more	so.	The	same	degree	of	diligence	needs	to	be	applied	in	terms	of
maintaining	our	production	monitoring	tools	as	we	apply	to	the	software	that
we	write	and	maintain.
We	should	also	recognize	that	these	tools	can	become	potential	vectors	of
attack	from	outside	parties.	At	the	time	of	writing,	the	US	government	and
other	organizations	around	the	world	are	dealing	with	the	discovery	of	a
breach	in	network	management	software	from	SolarWinds.	Although	the
exact	nature	of	the	breach	is	still	being	explored,	it	is	believed	that	this	is
what’s	known	as	a	supply	chain	attack.	Once	installed	on	customer	sites	(and
SolarWinds	is	used	by	425	of	the	US	Fortune	500	companies),	this	software
allowed	malicious	parties	to	gain	external	access	to	customers’	networks,
--- PAGE 407 ---
including	the	US	Treasury’s	network.
Distributed	Tracing
So
	far,	I’ve	primarily	been	talking	about	collecting	information	in	isolation.	Yes,
we’re	aggregating	that	information,	but	understanding	the	wider	context	in
which	this	information	has	been	captured	can	be	key.	Fundamentally,	a
microservice	architecture	is	a	set	of	processes	that	work	together	to	carry	out
some	kind	of	task—we	explored	the	various	different	ways	we	can	coordinate
these	activities	in	
Chapter	6
.	Thus	it	makes	sense,	when	wanting	to	understand
how	our	system	is	actually	behaving	in	a	production	environment,	that	we	are
able	to	see	the	relationships	between	our	microservices.	This	can	help	us	better
understand	how	our	system	is	behaving,	assess	the	impact	of	an	issue,	or	get
better	at	figuring	out	what	exactly	is	not	working	as	we’d	expect.
As	our	systems	become	more	complex,	it	therefore	becomes	important	to	have	a
way	of	seeing	these	traces	through	our	systems.	We	need	to	be	able	to	pull	this
disparate	data	to	give	us	a	joined-up	view	of	a	set	of	correlated	calls.	As	we’ve
already	seen,	doing	something	simple	like	putting	correlation	IDs	into	our
logfiles	is	a	good	start,	but	it’s	a	fairly	unsophisticated	solution,	especially	as
we’ll	end	up	having	to	create	our	own	custom	tooling	to	help	visualize,	slice,	and
dice	this	data.	This	is	where	distributed	tracing	comes	in.
How	it	works
Although
	the	exact	implementations	vary,	broadly	speaking,	distributed	tracing
tools	all	work	in	a	similar	way.	Local	activity	within	a	thread	is	captured	in	a
span
.	These	individual	spans	are	correlated	using	some	unique	identifier.	The
spans	are	then	sent	to	a	central	collector,	which	is	able	to	construct	these	related
spans	into	a	single	
trace
.	In	
Figure	10-7
,	we	see	a	picture	from	Honeycomb	that
shows	a	trace	across	a	microservice	architecture.
--- PAGE 408 ---
Figure	10-7.	
A	distributed	trace	shown	in	Honeycomb,	allowing	you	to	identify	where	time	is	being	spent
for	operations	that	can	span	multiple	microservices
These	spans	allow	you	to	collect	a	host	of	information.	Exactly	what	data	you
collect	will	depend	on	the	protocol	you	are	using,	but	in	the	case	of	the
OpenTracing	API,	each	span	contains	a	start	and	end	time,	a	set	of	logs
associated	with	the	span,	and	an	arbitrary	set	of	key-value	pairs	to	help	with	later
querying	(these	could	be	used	to	send	things	like	a	customer	ID,	an	order	ID,	a
hostname,	a	build	number,	and	the	like).
Collecting	enough	information	to	allow	us	to	trace	calls	in	our	system	can	have	a
direct	impact	on	the	system	itself.	This	results	in	the	need	for	some	form	of
sampling,	in	which	some	information	is	explicitly	excluded	from	our	trace
collection	to	ensure	the	system	can	still	operate.	The	challenge	is	ensuring	that
the	right	information	is	dropped,	and	that	we	still	collect	sufficient	samples	to
allow	us	to	correctly	extrapolate	observations.
Sampling	strategies	can	be	very	basic.	Google’s	Dapper	system,	which	inspired
many	of	the	distributed	tracing	tools	that	came	afterwards,	performed	a	highly
aggressive	random	sampling.	A	certain	percentage	of	calls	were	sampled,	and
that	was	it.	Jaeger,	for	example,	will	capture	only	1	in	1,000	calls	in	its	default
setting.	The	idea	here	is	to	capture	enough	information	to	understand	what	our
system	is	doing	but	not	capture	so	much	information	that	the	system	itself	cannot
--- PAGE 409 ---
cope.	Tools	like	Honeycomb	and	Lightstep	can	provide	more	nuanced,	dynamic
sampling	than	this	simple	random-based	sampling.	An	example	of	dynamic
sampling	could	be	where	you	want	more	samples	for	certain	types	of	events—
for	example,	you	might	want	to	sample	anything	that	generates	an	error	but
would	be	happy	sampling	only	1	in	100	successful	operations	if	they	are	all
pretty	similar.
Implementing	distributing	tracing
Getting	distributed	tracing	up	and	running	for	your	system	requires	a	few	things.
Firstly,	you	need	to	capture	span	information	inside	your	microservices.	If	you
are	using	a	standard	API	like	OpenTracing	or	the	newer	OpenTelemetry	API,
you	might	find	that	some	of	the	third-party	libraries	and	frameworks	will	come
with	support	for	these	APIs	built	in	and	will	already	send	useful	information	(for
example,	automatically	capturing	information	about	HTTP	calls).	But	even	if
they	do,	chances	are	you’ll	still	want	to	instrument	your	own	code,	providing
useful	information	about	what	your	microservice	is	doing	at	any	given	point	of
time.
Next,	you’ll	need	some	way	to	send	this	span	information	to	your	collector—it
may	be	that	you	send	this	data	directly	from	your	microservice	instance	to	the
central	collector,	but	it’s	much	more	common	to	use	a	local	forwarding	agent.	So
as	with	log	aggregation,	you	run	an	agent	locally	to	your	microservice	instance,
which	will	periodically	send	the	span	information	to	a	central	collector.	The	use
of	a	local	agent	typically	allows	for	some	more	advanced	capabilities,	such	as
changing	sampling	or	adding	additional	tags,	and	can	also	more	effectively
buffer	information	being	sent.
Lastly,	of	course,	you	need	a	collector	able	to	receive	this	information	and	make
sense	of	it	all.
In	the	open	source	space,	Jaeger	has	emerged	as	a	popular	choice	for	distributed
tracing.	For	commercial	tooling,	I’d	start	by	looking	at	the	already	mentioned
Lightstep	and	Honeycomb.	I’d	urge	you,	though,	to	pick	something	that	is
committed	to	supporting	the	OpenTelemetry	API.	
OpenTelemetry
	is	an	open	API
specification	that	makes	it	much	easier	to	have	code	such	as	database	drivers	or
web	frameworks	come	out	of	the	box	with	support	for	tracing,	and	it	can	also
give	you	easier	portability	across	different	vendors	on	the	collection	side.	Based
--- PAGE 410 ---
on	work	done	by	the	earlier	OpenTracing	and	OpenConsensus	APIs,	this	API
now	has	broad	industry	support.
Are	We	Doing	OK?
We’ve
	talked	a	lot	about	the	things	you	could	be	doing	as	the	operator	of	a
system—the	mindset	you	need,	the	information	you	might	need	to	gather.	But
how	do	you	know	if	you’re	doing	too	much—or	not	enough?	How	do	you	know
if	you	are	doing	a	good	enough	job,	or	that	your	system	is	working	well	enough?
Binary	concepts	of	a	system	being	“up”	or	“down”	start	to	have	less	and	less
meaning	as	the	system	becomes	more	complex.	With	a	single-process	monolithic
system,	it’s	easier	to	see	system	health	as	a	black-and-white	quality.	But	what
about	a	distributed	system?	If	one	instance	of	a	microservice	is	unreachable,	is
that	a	problem?	Is	a	microservice	“healthy”	if	it	is	reachable?	What	about	a
situation	in	which	our	
Returns
	microservice	is	available,	but	half	the
functionality	it	provides	requires	the	use	of	the	downstream	
Inventory
microservice,	which	is	currently	experiencing	issues?	Does	that	mean	we
consider	the	
Returns
	microservice	healthy	or	not	healthy?
As	things	become	more	complex,	it	becomes	increasingly	important	to	take	a
step	back	and	think	about	things	from	a	different	vantage	point.	Think	of	a
beehive.	You	could	look	at	an	individual	bee	and	determine	that	it’s	not	happy.
Perhaps	it’s	lost	one	of	its	wings	and	thus	can	no	longer	fly.	This	is	certainly	a
problem	for	that	individual	bee,	but	can	you	extend	from	that	any	observation
about	the	health	of	the	hive	itself?	No—you’d	need	to	look	at	the	health	of	the
hive	in	a	more	holistic	fashion.	One	bee	being	sick	doesn’t	mean	the	whole	hive
is	sick.
We	can	try	to	work	out	if	a	service	is	
healthy
	by	deciding,	for	example,	what	a
good	CPU	level	is,	or	what	makes	for	an	acceptable	response	time.	If	our
monitoring	system	detects	that	the	actual	values	fall	outside	this	safe	level,	we
can	trigger	an	alert.	However,	in	many	ways,	these	values	are	one	step	removed
from	what	we	actually	want	to	track—namely,	
is	the	system	working?
	The	more
complex	the	interactions	between	the	services,	the	further	removed	we	are	from
actually	answering	that	question	by	just	looking	at	one	metric	in	isolation.
So	we	can	gather	a	lot	of	information,	but	by	itself	that	doesn’t	help	us	answer
--- PAGE 411 ---
the	question	of	whether	the	system	is	working	properly.	For	that,	we	need	to	start
thinking	a	bit	more	in	terms	of	defining	what	acceptable	behavior	looks	like.
Much	work	has	been	done	in	the	space	of	
site	reliability	engineering
	(SRE),	the
focus	of	which	is	how	we	can	ensure	that	our	systems	can	be	reliable	while	still
allowing	for	change.	From	this	space,	we	have	a	few	useful	concepts	to	explore.
Strap	in—we’re	about	to	enter	acronym	city.
Service-level	agreement
A	
service-level	agreement
	(SLA)
	is	an	agreement	reached	between	the	people
building	the	system	and	the	people	using	the	system.	It	describes	not	only	what
the	users	can	expect	but	also	what	happens	if	the	system	doesn’t	reach	this	level
of	acceptable	behavior.	SLAs	tend	to	be	very	much	at	the	“bare	minimum”	level
of	things,	often	to	the	point	that	if	the	system	only	just	achieved	its	targets,	the
end	user	would	still	be	unhappy.	As
	an	example,	AWS	has	an	SLA	for	its
compute	service.	It	makes	it	clear	there	is	no	effective	guarantee	for	uptime	for	a
single	EC2	instance	(a	managed	virtual	machine
).	AWS	states	that	it	makes	its
best	efforts	to	ensure	90%	uptime	for	a	given	instance,	but	if	that	isn’t	achieved,
then	it	just	doesn’t	charge	you	for	the	given	hour	in	which	the	instance	was
unavailable.	Now,	if	your	EC2	instances	were	constantly	failing	to	reach	90%
availability	in	a	given	hour,	causing	significant	system	instability,	you	might	not
be	getting	charged,	but	you	also	wouldn’t	be	very	happy.	In	my	experience,
AWS	in	practice	achieves	far	in	excess	of	what	the	SLA	outlines,	as	is	often	the
case	with	SLAs.
Service-level	objectives
Mapping
	an	SLA	down	to	a	team	is	problematic,	especially	if	the	SLA	is
somewhat	broad	and	cross-cutting.	At	a	team	level,	we	instead	talk	about
service-level	objectives
	(SLOs).	SLOs	define	what	the	team	signs	up	to	provide.
Achieving	the	SLOs	of	every	team	across	the	organization	will	satisfy	(and
likely	greatly	exceed)	the	requirements	of	the	organization’s	SLAs.	Example
SLOs	could	include	things	like	expected	uptime	or	acceptable	response	times	for
a	given	operation.
It	is	too	simplistic	to	think	of	SLOs	as	being	what	a	team	needs	to	do	for	the
organization	to	achieve	its	SLAs.	Yes,	if	the	entire	organization	achieves	all	of
8
--- PAGE 412 ---
its	SLOs,	we	would	assume	that	all	the	SLAs	have	also	been	achieved,	but	SLOs
can	speak	to	other	goals	not	outlined	in	the	SLA—or	they	might	be	aspirational,
they	could	be	inward	facing	(trying	to	carry	out	some	internal	change).	SLOs	can
often	reflect	something	that	the	team	itself	wants	to	achieve	that	may	have	no
relation	to	an	SLA.
Service-level	indicators
To
	determine	if	we	are	meeting	our	SLOs,	we	need	to	gather	real	data.	This	is
what	our	
service-level	indicators
	(SLI)	are.	An	SLI	is	a	measure	of	something
our	software	does.	It	could,	for	example,	be	a	response	time	from	a	process,	a
customer	being	registered,	an	error	being	raised	to	the	customer,	or	an	order
being	placed.	We	need	to	collect	and	surface	these	SLIs	to	make	sure	we	are
meeting	our	SLOs.
Error	budgets
When
	we	try	new	things,	we	inject	more	potential	instability	into	our	systems.
As	such,	a	desire	to	maintain	(or	improve)	system	stability	could	result	in	change
being	discouraged.	
Error	budgets
	are	an	attempt	to	avoid	this	problem	by	being
clear	about	how	much	error	is	acceptable	in	a	system.
If	you	have	already	decided	on	an	SLO,	then	working	out	your	error	budget
should	be	pretty	clear.	For	example,	you	might	say	that	your	microservice	needs
to	be	available	99.9%	of	the	time	per	quarter,	on	a	24/7	basis.	That	means	you
are	actually	allowed	to	be	down	for	2	hours	and	11	minutes	per	quarter.	In	terms
of	that	SLO,	this	is	your	error	budget.
Error	budgets	help	give	you	a	clear	understanding	of	how	well	you	are	achieving
(or	not)	an	SLO,	allowing	you	to	make	better	decisions	about	what	risks	to	take.
If	you	are	well	under	your	error	budget	for	the	quarter,	perhaps	you	are	OK	with
rolling	out	that	microservice	written	in	a	new	programming	language.	If	you’ve
already	exceeded	your	error	budget,	maybe	you	put	off	that	rollout,	and	instead
focus	more	of	the	team’s	time	on	improving	the	reliability	of	your	system.
Error	budgets	are	as	much	about	giving	teams	breathing	room	to	try	new	things
as	anything.
Alerting
--- PAGE 413 ---
On
	occasion	(hopefully	rarely,	but	likely	more	than	we’d	like),	something	will
happen	in	our	systems	that	will	require	a	human	operator	to	be	notified	to	take
action.	A	microservice	may	have	unexpectedly	become	unavailable,	we	might	be
seeing	a	larger	number	of	errors	than	we’d	expect,	or	perhaps	the	entire	system
has	become	unavailable	for	our	users.	In	these	situations,	we	need	people	to	be
made	aware	of	what’s	happening	so	they	can	try	and	fix	things.
The	problem	is	that	with	a	microservice	architecture,	given	the	larger	number	of
calls,	the	larger	number	of	processes,	and	the	more	complex	underlying
infrastructure,	there	will	often	be	things	going	wrong.	The	challenge	in	a
microservice	environment	is	working	out	exactly	what	types	of	problems	should
cause	a	human	to	be	informed	and	exactly	how	they	should	be	told.
Some	problems	are	worse	than	others
When	something	goes	wrong,	we	want	to	know	about	it.	Or	do	we?	Are	all
problems	the	same?	As	the	sources	of	problems	increase,	it	can	become	more
important	to	be	able	to	prioritize	these	issues	to	decide	if,	and	how,	a	human
operator	should	be	involved.	Often	the	biggest	question	I	find	myself	asking
when	it	comes	to	alerting	is,	“Should	this	problem	cause	someone	to	be	woken
up	at	3	a.m.?”
I	saw	one	example	of	this	thinking	while	spending	some	time	on	the	Google
campus	many	years	ago.	In	the	reception	area	of	one	of	the	buildings	in
Mountain	View	
was	an	old	rack	of	machines,	there	as	a	sort	of	exhibit.	I	noticed
a	couple	of	things.	First,	these	servers	weren’t	in	server	enclosures;	they	were
just	bare	motherboards	slotted	into	the	rack.	The	main	thing	I	noticed,	though,
was	that	the	hard	drives	were	attached	by	Velcro.	I	asked	one	of	the	Googlers
why	that	was.	“Oh,”	he	said,	“the	hard	drives	fail	so	much	we	don’t	want	them
screwed	in.	We	just	rip	them	out,	throw	them	in	the	bin,	and	velcro	in	a	new
one.”
The	systems	Google	built	assumed	that	hard	drives	would	fail.	It	optimized	the
design	of	these	servers	to	ensure	that	hard	drive	replacement	was	as	easy	as
possible.	As	the	system	had	been	built	to	tolerate	the	failure	of	a	hard	drive,
while	it	was	important	that	the	drive	was	replaced	eventually,	chances	are	a
single	hard	drive	failure	wasn’t	going	to	cause	any	significant	issues	that	would
be	visible	to	the	user.	With	thousands	of	servers	in	a	Google	data	center,	it	would
--- PAGE 414 ---
be	someone’s	daily	task	to	just	walk	along	a	row	of	racks	and	replace	hard	drives
as	they	went.	Sure,	the	drive	failure	was	an	issue,	but	one	that	could	be	dealt
with	in	a	routine	fashion.	A	hard	drive	failure	was	considered	routine—not	worth
calling	someone	about	outside	of	regular	work	hours,	but	perhaps	just	something
they	needed	to	be	told	about	during	their	normal	working	day.
As	your	sources	of	potential	issues	increase,	you’ll	need	to	get	better	at
prioritizing	what	things	cause	what	types	of	alerts.	Otherwise,	you	may	well	find
yourself	struggling	to	separate	the	trivial	from	the	urgent.
Alert	fatigue
Often,	too
	many	alerts	can	cause	significant	issues.	In	1979,	there	was	a	partial
meltdown	of	a	reactor	at	the	Three	Mile	Island	nuclear	power	station	in	the	US.
The	investigation	into	the	incident	highlighted	the	fact	that	the	operators	of	the
facility	were	so	overwhelmed	by	the	alerts	they	were	seeing	that	it	was
impossible	to	determine	what	action	needed	to	be	taken.	There	was	an	alert
indicating	the	fundamental	problem	that	needed	to	be	addressed,	but	this	wasn’t
something	that	was	obvious	to	the	operators,	as	so	many	other	alerts	were	going
off	at	the	same	time.	During	the	public	hearing	into	the	incident,	one	of	the
operators,	Craig	Faust,	recalled	that	“I	would	have	liked	to	have	thrown	away
the	alarm	panel.	It	wasn’t	giving	us	any	useful	information.”	The	report	into	the
incident	concluded	that	the	control	room	“was	greatly	inadequate	for	managing
an	accident.”
More	recently,	we	have	seen	this	issue	of	too	many	alerts	being	raised	in	the
context	of	a	series	of	incidents	with	the	737	Max	aircraft	that	included	two
separate	air	crashes	that	killed	346	people	in	total.	The	initial	report
	into	the
issues	by	the	US	National	Transportation	Safety	Board	(NTSB)	drew	attention	to
the	confusing	alerts	that	were	triggered	in	real-world	conditions	and	were
considered	to	be	contributing	factors	in	the	crashes.	From	the	report:
Human	factors	research	has	identified	that,	for	non-normal	conditions,	such
as	those	involving	a	system	failure	with	multiple	alerts,	where	there	may	be
multiple	flight	crew	actions	required,	providing	pilots	with	understanding	as
to	which	actions	must	take	priority	is	a	critical	need.	This	is	particularly	true
in	the	case	of	functions	implemented	across	multiple	airplane	systems	because
a	failure	in	one	system	within	highly	integrated	system	architectures	can
9
10
--- PAGE 415 ---
present	multiple	alerts	and	indications	to	the	flight	crew	as	each	interfacing
system	registers	the	failure...Thus,	it	is	important	that	system	interactions	and
the	flight	deck	interface	be	designed	to	help	direct	pilots	to	the	highest	priority
action(s).
So	here	we’re	talking	about	operating	a	nuclear	reactor	and	flying	an	aircraft.	I
suspect	that	many	of	you	right	now	are	wondering	what	this	has	to	do	with	the
system	you	are	building.	Now	it’s	possible	(if	not	likely)	that	you	aren’t	building
safety-critical	systems	like	this,	but	there	is	a	lot	we	can	learn	from	these
examples.	Both	involve	highly	complex,	interrelated	systems	in	which	a	problem
in	one	area	can	cause	a	problem	in	another.	And	when	we	generate	too	many
alerts,	or	we	don’t	give	operators	the	ability	to	prioritize	what	alerts	should	be
focused	on,	disaster	can	follow.	Overwhelming	an	operator	with	alerts	can	cause
real	issues.	From	the	report	again:
In	addition,	research	into	pilot	responses	to	multiple/simultaneous	anomalous
situations,	along	with	data	from	accidents,	indicates	that	multiple	competing
alerts	may	exceed	available	mental	resources	and	narrow	attentional	focus
leading	to	delayed	or	inadequately	prioritized	responses.
So	think	twice	about	simply	throwing	up	more	alerts	to	an	operator—you	might
not	get	what	you	want.
ALARM	VERSUS	ALERT
When
	looking	more	broadly	into	the	topic	of	alerting,	I	found	a	lot	of
incredibly	useful	research	and	practice	from	a	number	of	contexts,	many	of
which	were	not	specifically	talking	about	alerting	in	IT	systems.	The	term
alarm
	is	commonly	encountered	when	looking	into	this	topic	in	engineering
and	beyond,	whereas	we	tend	to	use	the	term	
alert
	more	commonly	in	IT.	I
spoke	to	a	few	people	who	see	a	distinction	between	these	two	terms,	but
oddly	enough,	what	distinctions	people	drew	between	these	two	terms	didn’t
seem	consistent.	Based	on	the	fact	that	most	people	seem	to	see	the	terms
alert
	and	
alarm
	as	practically	the	same,	and	on	the	fact	that	where	a
distinction	was	drawn	between	the	two	it	wasn’t	consistent,	I	have	decided	to
standardize	on	the	term	
alert
	for	this	book.
--- PAGE 416 ---
Toward	better	alerting
So	we	want	to	avoid	having	too	many	alerts,	as	well	as	having	alerts	that	aren’t
useful.	What	guidelines	can	we	look	at	to	help	us	create	better	alerts?
Steven	Shorrock	expands	on	this	subject	in	his	article	“Alarm	Design:	From
Nuclear	Power	to	WebOps,”
	which	is	a	great	read	and	a	good	jumping-off
point	for	more	reading	in	this	area.	From	the	article:
The	purpose	of	[alerts]	is	to	direct	the	user’s	attention	towards	significant
aspects	of	the	operation	or	equipment	that	require	timely	attention.
Drawing
	on	work	from	outside	software	development,	we	have	a	useful	set	of
rules	from,	of	all	places,	the	Engineering	Equipment	and	Materials	Users
Association	(EEMUA),	which	has	come	up	with	as	good	a	description	of	what
makes	for	a	good	alert	as	I’ve	seen:
Relevant
Make	sure	the	alert	is	of	value.
Unique
Ensure	that	the	alert	isn’t	duplicating	another.
Timely
We	need	to	get	the	alert	quickly	enough	to	make	use	of	it.
Prioritized
Give	the	operator	enough	information	to	decide	in	what	order	the	alerts
should	be	dealt	with.
Understandable
The	information	in	the	alert	needs	to	be	clear	and	readable.
Diagnostic
It	needs	to	be	clear	what	is	wrong.
Advisory
11
--- PAGE 417 ---
Help	the	operator	understand	what	actions	need	to	be	taken.
Focusing
Draw	attention	to	the	most	important	issues.
Looking	back	over	my	career	to	times	when	I’ve	worked	in	production	support,
it’s	depressing	to	think	how	rarely	the	alerts	I’ve	had	to	deal	with	follow	any	of
these	rules.
All	too	often,	unfortunately,	the	people	providing	information	to	our	alerting
systems	and	the	people	actually	on	the	receiving	ends	of	our	alerts	are	different
people.	From	Shorrock	again:
Understanding	the	nature	of	alarm	handling,	and	the	associated	design	issues,
can	help	you—the	expert	in	your	work—to	be	a	more	informed	user,	helping	to
bring	about	the	best	alarm	systems	to	support	your	work.
One	technique	that	can	help	reduce	the	number	of	alerts	vying	for	our	attention
involves	shifting	how	we	think	about	which	issues	require	us	to	bring	them	to
operators’	attention	in	the	first	place.	Let’s	explore	this	topic	next.
Semantic	Monitoring
With
	semantic	monitoring,	we	are	defining	a	model	for	what	the	acceptable
semantics	of	our	system	are.	What	are	the	properties	the	system	has	to	have	for
us	to	think	it	is	operating	within	acceptable	means?	To	a	great	extent,	semantic
monitoring	requires	a	shift	in	our	behavior.	Rather	than	looking	for	the	presence
of	errors,	we	instead	need	to	be	constantly	asking	one	question:	is	the	system
behaving	the	way	that	we	expect?	If	it	is	behaving	correctly,	then	this	better
helps	us	understand	how	to	prioritize	dealing	with	the	errors	we	are	seeing.
The	next	thing	to	work	out	is	how	do	you	define	a	model	for	a	correctly
behaving	system.	You	can	get	super	formal	with	this	approach	(quite	literally,
with	some	organizations	making	use	of	formal	methods	for	this),	but	making
some	simple	value	statements	can	get	you	a	long	way.	For	example,	in	the	case
of	MusicCorp,	what	has	to	be	true	for	us	to	be	satisfied	that	the	system	is
working	correctly?	Well,	perhaps	we	say	that:
--- PAGE 418 ---
New	customers	can	register	to	join.
We	are	selling	at	least	$20,000	worth	of	products	per	hour	during	our
peak	time.
We	are	shipping	orders	out	at	a	rate	that	is	normal.
If	these	three	statements	can	prove	to	be	correct,	then	broadly	speaking	we	feel
that	the	system	is	operating	well	enough.	Coming	back	to	our	earlier	discussions
of	SLAs	and	SLOs,	our	model	for	semantic	correctness	would	be	expected	to
greatly	exceed	our	obligations	in	an	SLA,	and	we	would	expect	to	have	concrete
SLOs	that	allow	us	to	track	against	this	model.	Put	another	way,	making	these
statements	about	how	we	expect	our	software	to	be	acting	will	go	a	long	way
toward	our	identifying	SLOs.
One	of	the	biggest	challenges	is	in	getting	agreement	as	to	what	this	model	is.	As
you	can	see,	we	aren’t	talking	about	low	level	things	like	“disk	usage	shouldn’t
exceed	95%”;	we’re	making	higher-level	statements	about	our	system.	As	the
operator	of	
the	system
,	or	the	person	who	wrote	and	tested	the	microservice,	you
may	not	be	in	a	position	to	decide	what	these	value	statements	should	be.	In	a
product-driven	
delivery
	organization,	this	is	where	the	product	owner	should
come	in—but	it	might	be	your	job	as	the	operator	to	make	sure	the	discussion
with	the	product	owner	actually	happens.
Once	you’ve	decided	on	what	your	model	is,	then	it	comes	down	to	working	out
if	the	current	system	behavior	meets	this	model.	Broadly	speaking,	we	have	two
key	ways	to	do	this—real	user	monitoring	and	synthetic	transactions.	We’ll	look
at	synthetic	transactions	in	a	moment,	as	they	fall	under	the	umbrella	of	testing
in	production,	but	let’s	look	at	real	user	monitoring	first.
Real	user	monitoring
With
	real	user	monitoring,	we	look	at	what	is	actually	happening	in	our
production	system	and	compare	that	with	our	semantic	model.	In	MusicCorp,
we’d	look	at	how	many	customers	signed	up,	how	many	orders	we	sent,	and	so
on
The	challenge	with	real	user	monitoring	is	that	often	the	information	we	need
isn’t	available	to	us	in	a	timely	manner.	Consider	the	expectation	that	MusicCorp
should	be	selling	at	least	$20,000	in	products	per	hour.	If	this	information	is
--- PAGE 419 ---
locked	away	in	a	database	somewhere,	we	may	not	be	able	to	collect	this
information	and	act	on	it	accordingly.	This	is	why	you	may	need	to	get	better	at
exposing	access	to	information	that	you	would	previously	consider	to	be
“business”	metrics	to	your	production	tooling.	If	you	can	emit	a	CPU	rate	to
your	metrics	store,	and	this	metric	store	could	be	used	to	alert	on	this	condition,
then	why	can’t	you	also	record	a	sale	and	a	dollar	value	into	this	same	store?
One	of	the	main	drawbacks	of	real	user	monitoring	is	that	it	is	fundamentally
noisy.	You	are	getting	a	lot	of	information—sifting	through	it	to	find	out	if	there
is	a	problem	can	be	difficult.	It’s	also	worth	realizing	that	real	user	monitoring
tells	you	what	already	happened,	and	as	a	result	you	may	not	catch	an	issue	til
after	it	occurred.	If	a	customer	failed	to	get	registered,	that	is	an	unhappy
customer.	With	synthetic	transactions,	another	form	of	testing	in	production	that
we’ll	look	at	in	a	moment,	we	have	the	opportunity	to	not	just	cut	down	on	the
noise	but	also	catch	issues	before	our	users	are	aware	of	them.
Testing	in	Production
Not	testing	in	prod	is	like	not	practicing	with	the	full	orchestra	because	your
solo	sounded	fine	at	home.
—
Charity	Majors
As
	we’ve	covered	multiple	times	throughout	the	book,	from	our	discussion	of
concepts	like	canary	deployments	in	
“Canary	Release”
	to	our	look	at	the
balancing	act	with	regard	to	pre-	and	post-production	testing,	carrying	out	some
form	of	testing	in	production	can	be	an	incredibly	useful—and	safe—activity.
We’ve	looked	at	a	number	of	different	types	of	in-production	testing	in	this
book,	and	there	are	more	forms	besides,	so	I	felt	that	it	would	be	useful	to
summarize	some	of	the	different	types	of	testing	in	production	we’ve	already
looked	at	and	also	share	some	other	examples	of	testing	in	production	that	are
commonly	used.	It	surprises	me	how	many	people	who	are	scared	by	the	concept
of	testing	in	production	are	already	doing	it	without	really	realizing	they	are.
All	forms	of	testing	in	production	are	arguably	a	form	of	“monitoring”	activity.
We	are	carrying	out	these	forms	of	testing	in	production	to	ensure	that	our
production	system	is	running	as	we	expect,	and	many	forms	of	testing	in
production	can	be	incredibly	effective	in	picking	up	problems	before	our	users
12
--- PAGE 420 ---
even	notice.
Synthetic	transactions
With
	synthetic	transactions,	we	inject	fake	user	behavior	into	our	production
system.	This	fake	user	behavior	has	known	inputs	and	expected	outputs.	For
MusicCorp,	for	example,	we	could	artificially	create	a	new	customer	and	then
check	that	the	customer	was	successfully	created.	These	transactions	would	be
fired	on	a	regular	basis,	giving	us	the	chance	to	pick	up	problems	as	quickly	as
possible.
I	first	did	this	back	in	2005.	I	was	part	of	a	small	Thoughtworks	team	that	was
building	a	system	for	an	investment	bank.	Throughout	the	trading	day,	lots	of
events	came	in	that	represented	changes	in	the	market.	Our	job	was	to	react	to
these	changes	and	look	at	the	impact	on	the	bank’s	portfolio.	We	were	working
under	some	fairly	tight	deadlines,	a	sour	goal	was	to	complete	all	our
calculations	less	than	10	seconds	after	the	event	arrived.	The	system	itself
consisted	of	around	five	discrete	services,	at	least	one	of	which	was	running	on	a
computing	grid	that,	among	other	things,	was	scavenging	unused	CPU	cycles	on
around	250	desktop	hosts	in	the	bank’s	disaster	recovery	center.
The	number	of	moving	parts	in	the	system	meant	a	lot	of	noise	was	being
generated	from	many	of	the	lower-level	metrics	we	were	gathering.	We	also
didn’t	have	the	benefit	of	scaling	gradually	or	having	the	system	run	for	a	few
months	to	understand	what	“good”	looked	like	in	terms	of	low-level	metrics	like
CPU	rate	or	response	time.	Our	approach	was	to	generate	fake	events	to	price
part	of	the	portfolio	that	was	not	booked	into	the	downstream	systems.	Every
minute	or	so,	we	used	a	tool	called	Nagios	to	run	a	command-line	job	that
inserted	a	fake	event	into	one	of	our	queues.	Our	system	picked	it	up	and	ran	all
the	various	calculations	just	like	any	other	job,	except	the	results	appeared	in	the
“junk”	book,	which	was	used	only	for	testing.	If	a	repricing	wasn’t	seen	within	a
given	time,	Nagios	reported	this	as	an	issue.
In	practice,	I’ve	found	the	use	of	synthetic	transactions	to	perform	semantic
monitoring	like	this	to	be	a	far	better	indicator	of	issues	in	systems	than	alerting
on	the	lower-level	metrics.	They	don’t	replace	the	need	for	the	lower-level	detail,
though—we’ll	still	want	that	information	when	we	need	to	find	out	
why
	a
synthetic	transaction	failed.
--- PAGE 421 ---
Implementing	synthetic	transactions
In	the	past,	implementing	synthetic	transactions	was	a	fairly	daunting	task.	But
the	world	has	moved	on,	and	the	means	to	implement	them	is	at	our	fingertips!
You	are	running	tests	for	your	systems,	right?	If	not,	go	read	
Chapter	9
	and	come
back.	All	done?	Good!
If	we	look	at	the	tests	we	have	that	test	a	given	service	end	to	end,	or	even	our
whole	system	end	to	end,	we	have	much	of	what	we	need	to	implement	semantic
monitoring.	Our	system	already	exposes	the	hooks	needed	to	launch	the	test	and
check	the	result.	So	why	not	just	run	a	subset	of	these	tests,	on	an	ongoing	basis,
as	a	way	of	monitoring	our	system?
There	are	some	things	we	need	to	do,	of	course.	First,	we	need	to	be	careful
about	the	data	requirements	of	our	tests.	We	may	need	to	find	a	way	for	our	tests
to	adapt	to	different	live	data	if	it	changes	over	time,	or	else	set	a	different	source
of	data.	For	example,	we	could	have	a	set	of	fake	users	we	use	in	production
with	a	known	set	of	data.
Likewise,	we	have	to	make	sure	we	don’t	accidentally	trigger	unforeseen	side
effects.	A	friend	told	me	a	story	about	an	ecommerce	company	that	accidentally
ran	its	tests	against	its	production	ordering	systems.	It	didn’t	realize	its	mistake
until	a	large	number	of	washing	machines	arrived	at	the	head	office.
A/B	testing
With
	an	A/B	test,	you	deploy	two	different	versions	of	the	same	functionality,
with	users	seeing	either	the	“A”	or	the	“B”	functionality.	You	are	then	able	to	see
which	version	of	the	functionality	performs	best.	This	is	commonly	used	when
trying	to	decide	between	two	different	approaches	for	how	something	should	be
done—for	example,	you	might	try	two	different	customer	registration	forms	to
see	which	one	is	more	effective	in	driving	sign-ups.
Canary	release
A
	small	portion	of	your	user	base	gets	to	see	the	new	release	of	functionality.	If
this	new	functionality	works	well,	you	can	increase	the	portion	of	your	user	base
that	sees	the	new	functionality	to	the	point	that	the	new	version	of	the
functionality	is	now	used	by	all	users.	On	the	other	hand,	if	the	new	functionality
doesn’t	work	as	intended,	you’ve	impacted	only	a	small	portion	of	your	user
--- PAGE 422 ---
base	and	can	either	revert	the	change	or	try	to	fix	whatever	problem	you	have
identified.
Parallel	run
With
	a	parallel	run,	you	execute	two	different	equivalent	implementations	of	the
same	functionality	side	by	side.	Any	user	request	is	routed	to	both	versions,	and
their	results	can	be	compared.	So	instead	of	directing	a	user	to	either	the	old	or
the	new	version,	as	in	a	canary	release	we	execute	both	versions—but	the	user
sees	only	one.	This	allows	for	a	full	comparison	between	the	two	different
versions,	which	is	incredibly	useful	when	we	want	a	better	understanding	of
aspects	like	the	load	characteristics	of	a	new	implementation	of	some	key
functionality.
Smoke	tests
Used
	after	the	software	is	deployed	into	production	but	before	it	is	released,
smoke	tests	are	run	against	the	software	to	make	sure	it	is	working	appropriately.
These	tests	are	normally	fully	automated	and	can	range	from	very	simple
activities	like	making	sure	a	given	microservice	is	up	and	running	to	actually
executing	full-blown	synthetic	transactions.
Synthetic	transactions
A	full-blown,	fake	user	interaction	is	injected	into	the	system.	It’s	often	very
close	to	the	sort	of	end-to-end	test	you	might	write.
Chaos	engineering
A
	topic	we’ll	discuss	more	in	
Chapter	12
,	chaos	engineering	can	involve
injection	of	faults	into	a	production	system	to	ensure	that	it	is	able	to	handle
these	expected	issues.	The	best-known	example	of	this	technique	is	probably
Netflix’s	Chaos	Monkey,	which	is	able	to	turn	off	virtual	machines	in
production,	with	the	expectation	that	the	system	is	robust	enough	that	these
shutdowns	don’t	interrupt	the	end-user	functionality.
Standardization
As
	we’ve	covered	previously,	one	of	the	ongoing	balancing	acts	you’ll	need	to
--- PAGE 423 ---
pull	off	is	where	to	allow	for	decisions	to	be	made	narrowly	for	a	single
microservice	versus	where	you	need	to	standardize	across	your	system.	In	my
opinion,	monitoring	and	observability	is	one	area	in	which	standardization	can
be	incredibly	important.	With	microservices	collaborating	in	lots	of	different
ways	to	provide	capabilities	to	users	using	multiple	interfaces,	you	need	to	view
the	system	in	a	holistic	way.
You	should	try	to	write	your	logs	out	in	a	standard	format.	You	definitely	want	to
have	all	your	metrics	in	one	place,	and	you	may	want	to	have	a	list	of	standard
names	for	your	metrics	too;	it	would	be	very	annoying	for	one	service	to	have	a
metric	called	
ResponseTime
,	and	another	to	have	one	called	
RspTimeSecs
,
when	they	mean	the	same	thing.
As	always	with	standardization,	tools	can	help.	As	I’ve	said	before,	the	key	is	to
make	it	easy	to	do	the	right	thing—so	having	a	platform	with	many	of	the	basic
building	blocks	in	place,	like	log	aggregation,	makes	a	lot	of	sense.	Increasingly,
much	of	this	falls	to	the	platform	team,	the	role	of	which	we	explore	more	fully
in	
Chapter	15
.
Selecting	Tools
As
	we’ve	already	covered,	there	are	potentially	a	host	of	different	tools	you	may
need	to	bring	to	bear	to	help	improve	the	observability	of	your	system.	But	as
I’ve	already	touched	on,	this	is	a	fast-emerging	space,	and	it’s	highly	likely	that
the	tooling	we’ll	be	using	in	the	future	will	look	very	different	from	what	we
have	now.	With	platforms	like	Honeycomb	and	Lightstep	leading	the	way	in
terms	of	what	observability	tooling	for	microservices	looks	like,	and	with	the
rest	of	the	market	to	an	extent	playing	catch-up,	I	fully	expect	this	space	to	see	a
lot	of	churn	in	the	future.
So	it’s	quite	possible	you’ll	need	different	tools	from	what	you	have	right	now	if
you’re	only	just	embracing	microservices,	and	it’s	possible	you’ll	want	different
tooling	in	the	future	too,	as	the	solutions	in	this	space	continue	to	improve.	With
that	in	mind,	I	want	to	share	a	few	thoughts	about	criteria	that	I	think	are
important	for	any	tooling	in	this	area	to	have.
Democratic
--- PAGE 424 ---
If	you	have	tools	that	are	so	hard	to	work	with	only	experienced	operators	can
make	use	of	them,	then	you	limit	the	number	of	people	who	can	participate	in
production	activities.	Likewise,	if	you	pick	tools	that	are	so	expensive	as	to
prohibit	their	use	in	any	situation	other	than	critical	production	environments,
then	developers	will	not	have	exposure	to	these	tools	until	it’s	too	late.
Pick	tools	that	consider	the	needs	of	all	the	people	whom	you	will	want	using
them.	If	you	really	want	to	move	to	a	model	of	more	collective	ownership	of
your	software,	then	the	software	needs	to	be	usable	by	everyone	in	the	team.
Making	sure	that	whatever	tooling	you	pick	will	also	be	used	in	development
and	test	environments	will	go	a	long	way	toward	making	this	goal	a	reality.
Easy	to	Integrate
Getting	the	right	information	out	of	your	application	architecture	and	the
systems	you	run	on	is	vital,	and	as	we’ve	already	covered,	you	may	need	to	be
extracting	more	information	than	before,	and	in	different	formats.	Making	this
process	as	easy	as	possible	is	crucial.	Initiatives	such	as	
OpenTracing
	have
helped	in	terms	of	providing	standard	APIs	that	client	libraries	and	platforms	can
support,	making	integration	and	portability	across	toolchains	easier.	Of	special
interest,	as	I’ve	discussed,	is	the	new	OpenTelemetry	initiative,	which	is	being
driven	by	a	large	number	of	parties.
Picking	tools	that	support	these	open	standards	will	ease	integration	efforts	and
also	perhaps	help	make	it	easier	to	change	vendors	later	on.
Provide	Context
When
	looking	at	a	piece	of	information,	I	need	the	tool	to	provide	me	with	as
much	context	as	possible	to	help	me	understand	what	needs	to	happen	next.	I
really	like	the	following	categorization	system	for	different	types	of	context	that
I	found	via	a	Lightstep	blog	post:
Temporal	context
How	does	this	look	compared	to	a	minute,	hour,	day,	or	month	ago?
Relative	context
13
--- PAGE 425 ---
How	has	this	changed	in	relation	to	other	things	in	the	system?
Relational	context
Is	something	depending	on	this?	Is	this	depending	on	something	else?
Proportional	context
How	bad	is	this?	Is	it	large	or	small	scoped?	Who	is	impacted?
Real-Time
You
	can’t	wait	ages	for	this	information.	You	need	it	now.	Your	definition	of
“now”	can	of	course	vary	somewhat,	but	in	the	context	of	your	systems,	you
need	information	quickly	enough	that	you	have	a	chance	of	spotting	a	problem
before	a	user	does,	or	at	the	very	least	of	having	the	information	at	hand	when
someone	does	complain.	In	practice,	we’re	talking	about	seconds,	not	minutes	or
hours.
Suitable	for	Your	Scale
Much
	of	the	work	in	the	space	of	distributed	systems	observability	has	been
inspired	by	work	done	in	large-scale	distributed	systems.	This	unfortunately	can
lead	to	us	trying	to	re-create	solutions	for	systems	of	much	larger	scale	than	our
own	without	understanding	the	trade-offs.
Systems	with	massive	scale	will	often	have	to	make	specific	trade-offs	to	reduce
the	functionality	of	their	systems	in	order	to	handle	the	scale	they	operate	at.
Dapper,	for	example,	had	to	make	use	of	a	highly	aggressive	random	sampling
of	data	(effectively	“dropping”	a	lot	of	information)	to	be	able	to	cope	with
Google	scale.	As	Ben	Sigelman,	founder	of	LightStep	and	creator	of	Dapper,
puts	it:
Google’s	microservices	generate	about	5	billion	RPCs	per	second;	building
observability	tools	that	scale	to	5B	RPCs/sec	therefore	boils	down	to	building
observability	tools	that	are	profoundly	feature	poor.	If	your	organization	is
doing	more	like	5	million	RPCs/sec,	that’s	still	quite	impressive,	but	you
should	almost	certainly	not	use	what	Google	uses:	at	1/1000th	the	scale,	you
can	afford	much	more	powerful	features.
14
--- PAGE 426 ---
You	also	ideally	want	a	tool	that	
can
	scale	as	you	scale.	Again,	cost	effectiveness
can	come	into	play	here.	Even	if	your	tool	of	choice	can	technically	scale	to
support	the	expected	growth	of	your	system,	can	you	afford	to	keep	paying	for
it?
The	Expert	in	the	Machine
I’ve
	talked	a	lot	about	tools	in	this	chapter,	perhaps	more	than	in	any	other
chapter	in	the	book.	This	is	partly	due	to	the	fundamental	shift	from	viewing	the
world	purely	in	terms	of	monitoring	to	instead	thinking	about	how	to	make	our
systems	more	observable;	this	change	in	behavior	requires	tooling	to	help
support	it.	It	would	be	a	mistake,	however,	to	see	this	shift	as	being	purely	about
new	tools,	as	I	hope	I’ve	already	explained.	Nonetheless,	with	a	large	number	of
different	vendors	vying	for	our	attention,	we	also	have	to	be	cautious.
For	over	a	decade	now,	I	have	seen	multiple	vendors	claim	some	degree	of
smarts	in	terms	of	how	their	system	will	be	the	one	that	will	magically	detect
problems	and	tell	us	exactly	what	we	need	to	do	to	fix	things.	This	seems	to
come	in	waves,	but	with	the	recent	buzz	around	machine	learning	(ML)	and
artificial	intelligence	(AI)	only	increasing,	I’m	seeing	more	claims	around
automated	anomaly	detection	being	made.	I	am	dubious	as	to	how	effective	this
can	be	in	a	fully	automated	fashion,	and	even	then	it	would	be	problematic	to
assume	that	all	the	expertise	you	need	could	be	automated	away.
Much	of	the	drive	around	AI	has	always	been	to	try	and	codify	expert
knowledge	into	an	automated	system.	The	idea	that	we	can	automate	away
expertise	might	be	attractive	to	some,	but	it’s	also	a	potentially	dangerous	idea	in
this	space,	at	least	with	our	current	understanding.	Why	automate	away
expertise?	So	then	you	don’t	have	to	invest	in	having	expert	operators	run	your
system.	I’m	not	trying	to	make	some	point	here	about	the	upheaval	of	labor
caused	by	technological	advancement—more	that	people	are	selling	this	idea
now,	and	companies	are	buying	this	idea	now,	in	the	hope	that	these	are	fully
solvable	(and	automatable)	problems.	The	reality	is	that	right	now,	they	aren’t.
I	worked	recently	with	a	data	science–focused	startup	in	Europe.	The	startup	was
working	with	a	company	that	provided	bed-monitoring	hardware,	which	could
gather	various	pieces	of	data	about	a	patient.	The	data	scientists	were	able	to
--- PAGE 427 ---
help	see	patterns	in	the	data,	showing	odd	clusters	of	patients	that	could	be
determined	by	correlating	various	facets	of	the	data.	The	data	scientists	could
say	“these	patients	seem	related”	but	had	no	awareness	as	to	what	the	meaning
of	that	relationship	was.	It	took	a	clinician	to	explain	that	some	of	these	clusters
referred	to	patients	who	were,	in	general,	more	sick	than	others.	It	required
expertise	to	identify	the	cluster,	and	a	different	expertise	to	understand	what	this
cluster	meant	and	put	that	knowledge	into	action.	Coming	back	to	our	tooling	for
monitoring	and	observability	tooling,	I	could	see	such	a	tool	alerting	someone	to
the	fact	that	“something	looks	odd,”	but	knowing	what	to	do	with	that
information	still	requires	a	degree	of	expertise.
While	I’m	sure	that	features	such	as	“automated	anomaly	detection”	may	well
continue	to	improve,	we	have	to	recognize	that	right	now,	the	expert	in	the
system	is,	and	will	remain	for	some	time,	a	human.	We	can	create	tools	that	can
better	inform	the	operator	of	what	needs	to	be	done,	and	we	can	provide
automation	to	help	the	operator	carry	out	their	decisions	in	a	more	effective
manner.	But	the	fundamentally	varied	and	complicated	environment	of	a
distributed	system	means	that	we	need	skilled	and	supported	human	operators.
We	want	our	experts	to	use	their	expertise	in	asking	the	right	questions	and
making	the	best	decisions	they	can.	We	shouldn’t	be	asking	them	to	use	their
expertise	to	deal	with	the	shortcomings	of	poor	tools.	Nor	should	we	succumb	to
the	convenient	notion	that	some	fancy	new	tool	will	solve	all	our	problems.
Getting	Started
As
	I’ve	outlined,	there	is	a	lot	to	think	about	here.	But	I	want	to	provide	a	basic
starting	point	for	a	simple	microservice	architecture	in	terms	of	what	and	how
you	should	capture	things.
To	start	off	with,	you	want	to	be	able	to	capture	basic	information	about	the
hosts	your	microservices	are	running	on—CPU	rate,	I/O,	and	so	on—and	make
sure	you	can	match	a	microservice	instance	back	to	the	host	it	is	running	on.	For
each	microservice	instance,	you	want	to	capture	response	times	for	its	service
interfaces	and	record	all	downstream	calls	in	logs.	Get	correlation	IDs	into	your
logs	from	the	start.	Log	other	major	steps	in	your	business	processes.	This	will
require	that	you	have	at	least	a	basic	metric	and	log	aggregation	toolchain	in
--- PAGE 428 ---
place.
I’d	hesitate	to	say	that	you	need	to	start	with	a	dedicated	distributed	tracing	tool.
If	you	have	to	run	and	host	the	tool	yourself,	this	can	add	significant	complexity.
On	the	other	hand,	if	you	can	make	use	of	a	fully	managed	service	offering
easily,	instrumenting	your	microservices	from	the	start	can	make	a	lot	of	sense.
For	key	operations,	strongly	consider	creating	synthetic	transactions	as	a	way	of
better	understanding	if	the	vital	aspects	of	your	system	are	working	properly.
Build	your	system	with	this	capability	in	mind.
All	of	this	is	just	the	basic	information	gathering.	More	importantly,	you	need	to
make	sure	you	can	sift	this	information	to	ask	questions	of	the	running	system.
Are	you	able	to	say	with	confidence	that	the	system	is	properly	working	for	your
users?	Over	time,	you’ll	need	to	collect	more	information	and	improve	your
tooling	(and	the	way	you	use	it)	to	better	improve	the	observability	of	your
platform.
Summary
Distributed	systems	can	be	complicated	to	understand,	and	the	more	distributed
they	are,	the	more	difficult	the	task	of	production	troubleshooting	becomes.
When	the	pressure	is	on,	alerts	are	blazing,	and	customers	are	screaming,	it’s
important	you	have	the	right	information	available	to	you	to	work	out	what	the
hell	is	going	on	and	what	you	need	to	do	to	fix	it.
As	your	microservice	architecture	becomes	more	complex,	it	becomes	less	easy
to	know	in	advance	what	problems	may	happen.	Instead,	you	will	frequently	be
surprised	by	the	types	of	problems	you	will	encounter.	It	thus	becomes	essential
to	shift	your	thinking	away	from	the	mostly	(passive)	activity	of	monitoring	and
toward	actively	making	your	system	observable.	This	involves	not	just
potentially	changing	your	toolset	but	also	shifting	away	from	static	dashboards
to	more	dynamic	slicing	and	dicing	activities.
With	a	simple	system,	the	basics	will	get	you	a	long	way.	Get	log	aggregation	in
from	the	start,	and	get	correlation	IDs	in	your	log	lines	too.	Distributed	tracing
can	follow	later,	but	be	on	the	lookout	for	when	the	time	comes	to	put	that	into
place.
--- PAGE 429 ---
Shift	your	understanding	of	system	or	microservice	health	away	from	a	binary
state	of	“happy”	or	“sad”;	realize	instead	that	the	truth	is	always	more	nuanced
than	that.	Switch	from	having	every	little	problem	generating	an	alert	to	thinking
more	holistically	about	what	is	acceptable.	Strongly	consider	embracing	SLOs
and	alerting	based	on	these	precepts	to	reduce	alert	fatigue	and	properly	focus
attention.
Above	all,	this	is	about	accepting	that	not	all	things	are	knowable	before	you	hit
production.	Get	good	at	handling	the	unknown.
We’ve	covered	a	lot,	but	there	is	more	to	dig	into	here.	If	you	want	to	explore	the
concepts	of	observability	in	more	detail,	then	I	recommend	
Observability
Engineering
	
by	Charity	Majors,	Liz	Fong-Jones,	and	George	Miranda.
	I	also
recommend	both	
Site	Reliability	Engineering
	and	
The	Site	Reliability
Workbook
	as	good	jumping-off	points	for	a	wider	discussion	around	SLOs,
SLIs,	and	the	like.	It’s	worth	noting	that	these	last	two	books	are	very	much
written	from	a	viewpoint	of	how	things	are	(or	were)	done	at	Google,	and	that
means	these	concepts	won’t	always	translate.	You	probably	aren’t	Google	and
probably	don’t	have	Google-sized	problems.	That	said,	there	is	still	a	lot	to
recommend	in	these	books.
In	the	next	chapter,	we’ll	take	a	different,	albeit	still	holistic	view	of	our	systems
and	consider	some	of	the	unique	advantages—and	challenges—that	fine-grained
architectures	can	provide	in	the	area	of	security.
1
	Honestly	Black	Lives	Matter	(@honest_update),	October	7,	2015,	7:10	p.m.,	
https://oreil.ly/Z28BA
.
2
	Fire	as	a	cause	of	system	outage	isn’t	a	totally	far-fetched	idea.	I	once	helped	in	the	aftermath	of	a
production	outage	caused	by	a	storage	area	network	(SAN)	catching	fire.	That	it	took	several	days	for
us	to	be	told	a	fire	had	occurred	is	a	story	for	another	day.
3
	I	didn’t	say	I	was	succeeding.
4
	Leslie	Lamport,	“Time,	Clocks,	and	the	Ordering	of	Events	in	a	Distributed	System,”
Communications	of	the	ACM
	21,	no.	7	(July	1978):	558–65,	
https://oreil.ly/qzYmh
.
5
	See	the	analysis	Kyle	Kingsbury	did	on	Elasticsearch	1.1.0	in	“Jepsen:	Elasticsearch,”
https://oreil.ly/uO9wU
	and	on	Elasticsearch	1.5.0	in	“Jepsen:	Elasticsearch	1.5.0,”
https://oreil.ly/8fBCt
.
6
	Renato	Losio,	“Elastic	Changes	Licences	for	Elasticsearch	and	Kibana:	AWS	Forks	Both,”	InfoQ,
January	25,	2021,	
https://oreil.ly/VdWzD
.
7
	Charity	Majors,	“Metrics:	Not	the	Observability	Droids	You’re	Looking	For,”	Honeycomb	(blog),
15
16
17
--- PAGE 430 ---
October	24,	2017,	
https://oreil.ly/TEETp
.
8
	Mostly.	AWS	does	now	provide	bare	metal	instances,	which	messes	with	my	brain	a	bit.
9
	United	States	President’s	Commission	on	the	Accident	at	Three	Mile	Island,	
The	Need	for	Change,
the	Legacy	of	TMI:	Report	of	the	President’s	Commission	on	the	Accident	at	Three	Mile	Island
(Washington,	DC:	The	Commission,	1979).
10
	National	Transportation	Safety	Board,	
Safety	Recommendation	Report:	Assumptions	Used	in	the
Safety	Assessment	Process	and	the	Effects	of	Multiple	Alerts	and	Indications	on	Pilot	Performance
(Washington,	DC:	NTSB,	2019).
11
	Steven	Shorrock,	“Alarm	Design:	From	Nuclear	Power	to	WebOps,”	Humanistic	Systems	(blog),
October	16,	2015,	
https://oreil.ly/RCHDL
.
12
	Charity	Majors	(@mipsytipsy),	Twitter,	July	7,	2019,	9:48	a.m.,	
https://oreil.ly/4VUAX
.
13
	“Observability:	A	Complete	Overview	for	2021,”	Lightstep,	accessed	June	16,	2021,
https://oreil.ly/a1ERu
.
14
	Ben	Sigelman,	“Three	Pillars	with	Zero	Answers—Towards	a	New	Scorecard	for	Observability,”
Lightstep	(blog	post),	December	5,	2018,	
https://oreil.ly/R3LwC
.
15
	Charity	Majors,	Liz	Fong-Jones,	and	George	Miranda,	
Observability	Engineering
	(Sebastopol:
O’Reilly,	2022).	At	the	time	of	writing,	this	book	is	in	early	release.
16
	Betsy	Beyer	et	al.,	eds.,	
Site	Reliability	Engineering:	How	Google	Runs	Production	Systems
(Sebastopol:	O’Reilly,	2016).
17
	Betsy	Beyer	et	al.,	eds.,	
The	Site	Reliability	Workbook
	(Sebastopol:	O’Reilly,	2018).

================================================================================
Ch11 Security (PDF pages 432-480)
================================================================================

--- PAGE 432 ---
Fundamental	concepts	that	are	useful	to	embrace	when	looking	to	build	more
secure	software
The	five	functions	of	cybersecurity
Identify,	protect,	detect,	respond,	and	recover—an	overview	of	the	five	key
function	areas	for	application	security
Foundations	of	application	security
Some	specific	fundamental	concepts	of	application	security	and	how	they
apply	to	microservices,	including	credentials	and	secrets,	patching,	backups,
and	rebuild
Implicit	trust	versus	zero	trust
Different	approaches	for	trust	in	our	microservice	environment	and	how	this
impacts	security-related	activities
Securing	data
How	we	protect	data	as	it	travels	over	networks	and	as	it	rests	on	disk
Authentication	and	authorization
How	single	sign-on	(SSO)	works	in	a	microservice	architecture,	centralized
versus	decentralized	authorization	models,	and	the	role	of	JWT	tokens	as
part	of	this
Core	Principles
Often
	when	the	topic	of	microservice	security	comes	up,	people	want	to	start
talking	about	reasonably	sophisticated	technological	issues	like	the	use	of	JWT
tokens	or	the	need	for	mutual	TLS	(topics	we	will	explore	later	in	this	chapter).
However,	the	problem	with	security	is	that	you’re	only	as	secure	as	your	least
secure	aspect.	To	use	an	analogy,	if	you’re	looking	to	secure	your	home,	it	would
be	a	mistake	to	focus	all	your	efforts	on	having	a	front	door	that	is	pick	resistant,
with	lights	and	cameras	to	deter	malicious	parties,	if	you	leave	your	back	door
open.
--- PAGE 433 ---
Thus,	there	are	some	fundamental	aspects	of	application	security	that	we	need	to
look	at,	however	briefly,	to	highlight	the	plethora	of	issues	you	need	to	be	aware
of.	We	will	look	at	how	these	core	issues	are	made	more	(or	less)	complex	in	the
context	of	microservices,	but	they	should	also	be	generally	applicable	to
software	development	as	a	whole.	For	those	of	you	who	want	to	jump	ahead	to
all	that	“good	stuff,”	please	just	make	sure	you	aren’t	focusing	too	much	on
securing	your	front	door	while	leaving	the	back	door	open.
Principle	of	Least	Privilege
When
	granting	application	access	to	individuals,	external	or	internal	systems,	or
even	our	own	microservices,	we	should	pay	careful	attention	to	what	access	we
grant.	The	principle	of	least	privilege	describes	the	idea	that	when	granting
access	we	should	grant	the	minimum	access	a	party	needs	to	carry	out	the
required	functionality,	and	only	for	the	time	period	they	need	it.	The	main
benefit	of	this	is	to	ensure	that	if	credentials	are	compromised	by	an	attacker,
those	credentials	will	give	the	malicious	party	as	limited	access	as	possible.
If	a	microservice	only	has	read-only	access	to	a	database,	then	an	attacker
gaining	access	to	those	database	credentials	will	only	gain	read-only	access,	and
only	to	that	database.	If	the	credential	to	the	database	expires	before	it	is
compromised,	then	the	credential	becomes	useless.	This	concept	can	be	extended
to	limit	which	microservices	can	be	communicated	with	by	specific	parties.
As	we’ll	see	later	in	this	chapter,	the	principle	of	least	privilege	can	extend	to
ensuring	that	access	controls	are	only	granted	for	limited	timeframes	as	well,
further	limiting	any	bad	outcomes	that	can	occur	in	the	event	of	a	compromise.
Defense	in	Depth
The
	UK,	where	I	live,	is	full	of	castles.	These	castles	are	a	partial	reminder	of
our	country’s	history	(not	least	a	reminder	of	a	time	before	the	United	Kingdom
was,	well,	united	to	some	degree).	They	remind	us	of	a	time	when	people	felt	the
need	to	defend	their	property	from	foes.	Sometimes	the	perceived	foes	were
different—many	of	the	castles	near	where	I	live	in	Kent	were	designed	to	defend
against	coastal	invasions	from	France.
	Whatever	the	reason,	castles	can	be	a
great	example	of	the	principle	of	defense	in	depth.
1
--- PAGE 434 ---
Having	only	one	protection	mechanism	is	a	problem	if	an	attacker	finds	a	way	to
breach	that	defense,	or	if	the	protection	mechanism	defends	against	only	certain
types	of	attackers.	Think	of	a	coastal	defense	fort	whose	only	wall	faces	the	sea,
leaving	it	totally	defenseless	against	an	attack	by	land.	If	you	look	at	Dover
Castle,	which	is	very	close	to	where	I	live,	there	are	multiple	protections	that	are
easy	to	see.	Firstly,	it	is	on	a	large	hill,	making	an	approach	to	the	castle	by	land
difficult.	It	has	not	one	wall	but	two—a	breach	in	the	first	wall	still	requires	that
an	attacker	deals	with	the	second	one.	And	once	you’re	through	the	final	wall,
you	have	a	large	and	imposing	keep	(tower)	to	deal	with.
The	same	principle	must	apply	when	we	build	protections	into	our	application
security.	Having	multiple	protections	in	place	to	defend	against	attackers	is	vital.
With	microservice	architectures,	we	have	many	more	places	where	we	are	able
to	protect	our	systems.	By	breaking	our	functionality	apart	into	different
microservices	and	limiting	the	scope	of	what	those	microservices	can	do,	we’re
already	applying	defense	in	depth.	We	can	also	run	microservices	on	different
network	segments,	apply	network-based	protections	at	more	places,	and	even
make	use	of	a	mix	of	technology	for	building	and	running	these	microservices
such	that	a	single	zero-day	exploit	may	not	impact	everything	we	have.
Microservices	provide	more	ability	to	defend	in	depth	than	equivalent	single-
process	monolithic	applications,	and	as	a	result,	they	can	help	organizations
build	more	secure	systems.
TYPES	OF	SECURITY	CONTROLS
When
	considering	the	security	controls	we	might	put	in	place	to	secure	our
system,	we	can	categorize	them	as:
Preventative
Stopping
	an	attack	from	happening.	This	includes	storing	secrets
securely,	encrypting	data	at	rest	and	in	transit,	and	implementing	proper
authentication	and	authorization	mechanisms.
Detective
Alerting
	you	to	the	fact	that	an	attack	is	happening/has	happened.
Application	firewalls	and	intrusion	detection	services	are	good	examples.
2
--- PAGE 435 ---
Responsive
Helping
	you	respond	during/after	an	attack.	Having	an	automated
mechanism	to	rebuild	your	system,	working	backups	to	recover	data,	and
a	proper	comms	plan	in	place	in	the	wake	of	an	incident	can	be	vital.
A	combination	of	all	three	will	be	required	to	properly	secure	a	system,	and
you	may	have	multiples	of	each	type.	Coming	back	to	our	castle	example,
we	might	have	multiple	walls,	which	represent	multiple	preventative
controls.	We	could	have	watchtowers	in	place	and	a	beacon	system	so	we
can	see	if	an	attack	is	happening.	Finally,	we	might	have	some	carpenters
and	stonemasons	on	standby	in	case	we	need	to	strengthen	the	doors	or	walls
in	the	wake	of	an	attack.	Obviously,	you	are	unlikely	to	be	building	castles
for	a	living,	so	we’ll	look	at	examples	of	these	controls	for	a	microservice
architecture	later	in	this	chapter.
Automation
A
	recurring	theme	of	this	book	is	automation.	As	we	have	so	many	more	moving
parts	with	microservice	architectures,	automation	becomes	key	to	helping	us
manage	the	growing	complexity	of	our	system.	At	the	same	time,	we	have	a
drive	toward	increasing	the	speed	of	delivery,	and	automation	is	essential	here.
Computers	are	way	better	at	doing	the	same	thing	over	and	over	again	than
humans	are—they	do	it	faster	and	more	efficiently	than	we	can	(and	with	less
variability	as	well).	They	can	also	reduce	human	error	and	make	it	easier	to
implement	the	principle	of	least	privilege—we	can	assign	specific	privileges	to
specific	scripts,	for	example.
As	we’ll	see	throughout	this	chapter,	automation	can	help	us	recover	in	the	wake
of	an	incident.	We	can	use	it	to	revoke	and	rotate	security	keys	and	also	make
use	of	tooling	to	help	detect	potential	security	issues	more	easily.	As	with	other
aspects	of	microservice	architecture,	embracing	a	culture	of	automation	will	help
you	immensely	when	it	comes	to	security.
Build	Security	into	the	Delivery	Process
--- PAGE 436 ---
Like
	so	many	other	aspects	of	software	delivery,	security	is	all	too	often
considered	an	afterthought.	Historically	at	least,	addressing	security	aspects	of	a
system	is	something	that	is	done	after	the	code	has	been	written,	potentially
leading	to	significant	reworking	later	on.	Security	has	often	been	looked	at	as
something	of	a	blocker	to	getting	software	out	the	door.
Over	the	last	20	years,	we’ve	seen	similar	issues	with	testing,	usability,	and
operations.	These	aspects	of	software	delivery	were	frequently	delivered	in
siloed	fashion,	often	after	the	bulk	of	the	code	was	finished.	An	old	colleague	of
mine,	Jonny	Schneider,	once	likened	the	approach	toward	usability	of	software
in	terms	of	a	“Do	you	want	fries	with	that?”	mentality.	In	other	words,	usability
is	an	afterthought—something	you	sprinkle	on	top	of	the	“main	meal.”
The	reality,	of	course,	is	that	software	that	isn’t	usable,	isn’t	secure,	can’t	operate
properly	in	production,	and	is	riddled	with	bugs	isn’t	in	any	way	shape	or	form	a
“main	meal”—it’s	a	flawed	offering	at	best.	We’ve	gotten	better	at	pulling
testing	forward	into	the	main	delivery	process,	as	we’ve	done	with	operational
aspects	(DevOps,	anyone?)	and	usability—security	should	be	no	different.	We
need	to	ensure	that	developers	have	a	more	general	awareness	of	security-related
concerns,	that	specialists	find	a	way	to	embed	themselves	into	delivery	teams
when	required,	and	that	tooling	improves	to	allow	us	to	build	security-related
thinking	into	our	software.
This	can	create	challenges	in	organizations	adopting	stream-aligned	teams	with
increased	degrees	of	autonomy	around	the	ownership	of	their	microservices.
What	is	the	role	of	security	experts?	In	
“Enabling	Teams”
,	we’ll	look	at	how
specialists
	like	security	experts	can	work	to	support	stream-aligned	teams	and
help	microservice	owners	build	more	security	thinking	into	their	software,	but
also	to	make	sure	that	you	have	the	right	deep	expertise	on	hand	when	you	need
it.
There
	are	automated	tools	that	can	probe	our	systems	for	vulnerabilities,	such	as
by	looking	for	cross-site	scripting	attacks.	The	Zed	Attack	Proxy	(aka	ZAP)	is	a
good	example.	Informed	by	the	work	of	OWASP,	ZAP	attempts	to	re-create
malicious	attacks	on	your	website.	Other	tools	exist	that	use	static	analysis	to
look	for	common	coding	mistakes	that	can	open	up	security	holes,	such	as
Brakeman
	for	Ruby;	there	are	also	tools	like	
Snyk
,	which	among	other	things
can	pick	up	dependencies	on	third-party	libraries	that	have	known
3
--- PAGE 437 ---
vulnerabilities.	Where	these	tools	can	be	easily	integrated	into	normal	CI	builds,
integrating	them	into	your	standard	check-ins	is	a	great	place	to	start.	Of	course,
it’s	worth	noting	that	many	of	these	types	of	tools	can	address	only	local	issues
—for	example,	a	vulnerability	in	a	specific	piece	of	code.	They	don’t	replace	the
need	to	understand	the	security	of	your	system	at	a	wider,	systemic	level.
The	Five	Functions	of	Cybersecurity
With
	those	core	principles	at	the	back	of	our	minds,	let’s	now	consider	the
broad-ranging	security-related	activities	that	we	need	to	perform.	We’ll	then	go
on	to	understand	how	these	activities	vary	in	the	context	of	a	microservice
architecture.	The	model	I	prefer	for	describing	the	universe	of	application
security	comes	from	the	US	National	Institute	of	Standards	and	Technology
(NIST),	which	outlines	a	
useful	five-part	model
	for	the	various	activities
involved	in	
cybersecurity:
Identify
	who	your	potential	attackers	are,	what	targets	they	are	trying	to
acquire,	and	where	you	are	most	vulnerable.
Protect
	your	key	assets	from	would-be	hackers.
Detect
	
if	an	attack	has	happened,	despite	your	best	efforts.
Respond
	when	you’ve	found	out	something	bad	has	occurred.
Recover
	in	the	wake	of	an	incident.
I	find	this	model	to	be	especially	useful	due	to	its	holistic	nature.	It’s	very	easy
to	put	all	your	effort	into	protecting	your	application	without	first	considering
what	threats	you	might	actually	face,	let	alone	working	out	what	you	might	do	if
a	clever	attacker	does	slip	past	your	defenses.
Let’s	explore	each	of	these	functions	in	a	bit	more	depth	and	look	at	how	a
microservice	architecture	might	change	how	you	approach	these	ideas	in
comparison	to	a	more	traditional	monolithic	architecture.
Identify
Before	we	can	work	out	what	we	should	protect,	we	need	to	work	out	who	might
--- PAGE 438 ---
be	after	our	stuff	and	what	exactly	they	might	be	looking	for.	It’s	often	hard	to
put	ourselves	into	the	mindset	of	an	attacker,	but	that’s	exactly	what	we	need	to
do	to	ensure	that	we	focus	our	efforts	in	the	right	place.	Threat	modeling	is	the
first	thing	you	should	look	at	when	addressing	this	aspect	of	application	security.
As	human	beings,	we	are	quite	bad	at	understanding	risk.	We	often	fixate	on	the
wrong	things	while	ignoring	the	bigger	problems	that	can	be	just	out	of	sight.
This	of	course	extends	into	the	field	of	security.	Our	understanding	about	what
security	risks	we	might	be	exposed	to	is	often	largely	colored	by	our	limited
view	of	the	system,	our	skills,	and	our	experiences.
When	I	chat	with	developers	about	security	risks	in	the	context	of	microservice
architecture,	they	immediately	start	talking	about	JWTs	and	mutual	TLS.	They
reach	for	technical	solutions	to	technical	problems	they	have	some	visibility	of.	I
don’t	mean	to	point	the	finger	just	at	developers—all	of	us	have	a	limited	view
of	the	world.	Coming	back	to	the	analogy	we	used	earlier,	this	is	how	we	can	end
up	with	an	incredibly	secure	front	door	and	a	wide-open	back	door.
At	one	company	I	worked	at,	there	had	been	a	number	of	discussions	around	the
need	to	install	closed-circuit	TV	(CCTV)	cameras	in	the	reception	areas	of	the
company’s	offices	all	over	the	world.	This	was	due	to	an	incident	in	which	an
unauthorized	person	had	gained	access	to	the	front	office	area	and	then	the
corporate	network.	The	belief	was	that	a	CCTV	camera	system	would	not	only
deter	others	from	trying	the	same	thing	again	but	also	help	identify	the
individuals	involved	after	the	fact.
The	specter	of	corporate	surveillance	unleashed	a	wave	of	anguish	in	the
company	regarding	“big	brother"–type	concerns.	Depending	on	which	side	of
the	argument	you	were	on,	this	was	either	about	spying	on	employees	(if	you
were	“pro”	cameras)	or	about	being	happy	for	intruders	to	gain	access	to	the
buildings	(if	you	were	“anti”	cameras).	Putting	aside	the	problematic	nature	of
such	a	polarized	discussion,
	one	employee	spoke	up	in	a	rather	sheepish	manner
to	suggest	that	perhaps	the	discussion	was	a	bit	misguided	as	we	were	missing
some	bigger	issues—namely	the	fact	that	people	seemed	unconcerned	that	the
front	door	of	one	of	the	main	offices	had	a	faulty	lock,	and	that	for	years	people
would	arrive	in	the	morning	to	find	the	door	unlocked.
This	extreme	(but	true)	story	is	a	great	example	of	a	common	problem	we	face
when	trying	to	secure	our	systems.	Without	having	time	to	take	in	all	the	factors
4
--- PAGE 439 ---
and	understand	just	where	your	biggest	risks	are,	you	may	well	end	up	missing
the	places	where	your	time	is	better	spent.	The	goal	of	threat	modeling	is	about
helping	you	understand	what	an	attacker	might	want	from	your	system.	What	are
they	after?	Will	different	types	of	malicious	actors	want	to	gain	access	to
different	assets?	Threat	modeling,	when	done	right,	is	largely	about	putting
yourself	in	the	mind	of	the	attacker,	thinking	from	the	outside	in.	This	outsider
view	is	important,	and	it’s	one	reason	why	having	an	external	party	help	drive	a
threat	modeling	exercise	can	be	very	useful.
The	core	idea	of	threat	modeling	doesn’t	change	much	when	we	look	at
microservice	architectures,	aside	from	the	fact	that	any	architecture	being
analyzed	may	now	be	more	complex.	What	shifts	is	how	we	take	the	outcome	of
a	threat	model	and	put	it	into	action.	One	of	the	outputs	of	a	threat	modeling
exercise	would	be	a	list	of	recommendations	for	what	security	controls	need	to
be	put	in	place—these	controls	can	include	things	like	a	change	in	process,	a
shift	in	technology,	or	perhaps	a	modification	in	system	architecture.	Some	of
these	changes	may	be	cross-cutting	and	could	impact	multiple	teams	and	their
associated	microservices.	Others	might	result	in	more	targeted	work.
Fundamentally,	though,	when	undertaking	threat	modeling,	you	do	need	to	look
holistically—focusing	this	analysis	on	too	small	a	subset	of	your	system,	such	as
one	or	two	microservices,	may	result	in	a	false	sense	of	security.	You	may	end
up	focusing	your	time	on	building	a	fantastically	secure	front	door,	only	to	have
left	the	window	open.
For	a	deeper	dive	into	this	topic,	I	can	recommend	
Threat	Modeling:	Designing
for	Security
	by	Adam	Shostack.
Protect
Once	we’ve	identified	our	most	valuable—and	most	vulnerable—assets,	we
need	to	ensure	that	they	are	properly	protected.	As	I’ve	noted,	microservice
architectures	arguably	give	us	a	much	wider	surface	area	of	attack,	and	we
therefore	have	more	things	that	may	need	to	be	protected,	but	they	also	give	us
more	options	to	defend	in	depth.	We’ll	spend	most	of	this	chapter	focusing	on
various	aspects	of	protection,	primarily	because	this	is	the	area	where
microservice	architectures	create	the	most	challenges.
5
--- PAGE 440 ---
Detect
With	a	microservice	architecture,	detecting	an	incident	can	be	more	complex.	We
have	more	networks	to	monitor	and	more	machines	to	keep	an	eye	on.	The
sources	of	information	are	greatly	increased,	which	can	make	detecting	problems
all	the	more	difficult.	Many	of	the	techniques	we	explored	in	
Chapter	10
,	such	as
log	aggregation,	can	help	us	gather	information	that	will	help	us	detect	that
something	bad	might	be	happening.	In	addition	to	those,	there	are	special	tools
like	intrusion	detection	systems	that	you	might	run	to	spot	bad	behavior.	The
software	to	deal	with	the	increasing	complexity	of	our	systems	is	improving,
especially	in	the	space	of	container	workloads	with	tools	like	
Aqua
.
Respond
If	the	worst	has	happened	and	you’ve	found	out	about	it,	what	should	you	do?
Working	out	an	effective	incident	response	approach	is	vital	to	limiting	the
damage	caused	by	a	breach.	This	normally	starts	with	understanding	the	scope	of
the	breach	and	what	data	has	been	exposed.	If	the	data	exposed	includes
personally	identifiable	information	(PII),	then	you	need	to	follow	both	security
and	privacy	incident	response	and	notification	processes.	This	may	well	mean
that	you	have	to	talk	to	different	parts	of	your	organization,	and	in	some
situations	you	may	be	legally	obliged	to	inform	an	appointed	data	protection
officer	when	certain	types	of	breach	occur.
Many	an	organization	has	compounded	the	impact	of	a	breach	through	its
mishandling	of	the	aftermath,	often	leading	to	increased	financial	penalties	quite
aside	from	the	damage	caused	to	its	brand	and	its	relationship	with	customers.
It’s	important,	therefore,	to	understand	not	just	what	you	have	to	do	because	of
legal	or	compliance	reasons	but	also	what	you	should	do	in	terms	of	looking
after	the	users	of	your	software.	The	GDPR,	for	example,	requires	that	personal
data	breaches	are	reported	to	the	relevant	authorities	within	72	hours—a	timeline
that	doesn’t	seem	overly	onerous.	That	doesn’t	mean	you	couldn’t	strive	to	let
people	know	earlier	if	a	breach	of	their	data	has	occurred.
Aside	from	the	external	communication	aspects	of	response,	how	you	handle
things	internally	is	also	critical.	Organizations	that	have	a	culture	of	blame	and
fear	are	likely	going	to	fare	badly	in	the	wake	of	a	major	incident.	Lessons	won’t
be	learned,	and	contributing	factors	won’t	come	to	light.	On	the	other	hand,	an
--- PAGE 441 ---
organization	that	focuses	on	openness	and	safety	will	be	best	placed	to	learn	the
lessons	that	ensure	that	similar	incidents	are	less	likely	to	happen.	We’ll	come
back	to	this	in	
“Blame”
.
Recover
Recovery	refers	to	our	ability	to	get	the	system	up	and	running	again	in	the	wake
of	an	attack,	and	also	our	ability	to	implement	what	we	have	learned	to	ensure
problems	are	less	likely	to	happen	again.	With	a	microservice	architecture,	we
have	many	more	moving	parts,	which	can	make	recovery	more	complex	if	an
issue	has	a	broad	impact.	So	later	in	this	chapter	we	will	look	at	how	simple
things	like	automation	and	backups	can	help	you	rebuild	a	microservice	system
on	demand	and	get	your	system	back	up	and	running	as	quickly	as	possible.
Foundations	of	Application	Security
OK,	now
	that	we	have	some	core	principles	in	place	and	some	sense	of	the	wide
world	that	security	activities	can	cover,	let’s	look	at	a	few	foundational	security
topics	in	the	context	of	a	microservice	architecture	if	you	want	to	build	a	more
secure	system—credentials,	patching,	backups,	and	rebuild.
Credentials
Broadly
	speaking,	credentials	give	a	person	(or	computer)	access	to	some	form
of	restricted	resource.	This	could	be	a	database,	a	computer,	a	user	account,	or
something	else.	With	a	microservice	architecture,	in	terms	of	how	it	compares	to
an	equivalent	monolithic	architecture,	we	likely	have	the	same	number	of
humans	involved,	but	we	have	
lots
	more	credentials	in	the	mix	representing
different	microservices,	(virtual)	machines,	databases,	and	the	like.	This	can	lead
to	a	degree	of	confusion	around	how	to	restrict	(or	not	restrict)	access,	and	in
many	cases	it	can	lead	to	a	“lazy”	approach	in	which	a	small	number	of
credentials	with	broad	privileges	are	used	in	an	attempt	to	simplify	things.	This
can	in	turn	lead	to	more	problems	if	credentials	are	compromised.
We	can	break	the	topic	of	credentials	down	into	two	key	areas.	Firstly,	we	have
the	credentials	of	the	users	(and	operators)	of	our	system.	These	are	often	the
--- PAGE 442 ---
weakest	point	of	our	system	and	are	commonly	used	as	an	attack	vector	by
malicious	parties,	as	we’ll	see	in	a	moment.	Secondly,	we	can	consider	secrets—
pieces	of	information	that	are	critical	to	running	our	microservices.	Across	both
sets	of	credentials,	we	have	to	consider	the	issues	of	rotation,	revocation,	and
limiting	scope.
User	credentials
User
	credentials,	such	as	email	and	password	combinations,	remain	essential	to
how	many	of	us	work	with	our	software,	but	they	also	are	a	potential	weak	spot
when	it	comes	to	our	systems	being	accessed	by	malicious	parties.	Verizon’s
2020	Data	Breach	Investigations	Report
	found	that	some	form	of	credential	theft
was	used	in	80%	of	cases	caused	by	hacking.	This	includes	situations	in	which
credentials	were	stolen	through	mechanisms	like	phishing	attacks	or	where
passwords	were	brute-forced.
There	is	some	excellent	advice	out	there	about	how	to	properly	handle	things
like	passwords—advice	that	despite	being	simple	and	clear	to	follow	is	still	not
being	adopted	widely	enough.	Troy	Hunt	has	an	excellent	overview	of	the	latest
advice	from	both	NIST	and	the	UK’s	National	Cyber	Security	Centre.
	This
advice	includes	recommendations	to	use	password	managers	and	long
passwords,	to	avoid	the	use	of	complex	password	rules,	and—somewhat
surprisingly—to	avoid	mandated	regular	password	changes.	Troy’s	full	post	is
worth	reading	in	detail.
In	the	current	era	of	API-driven	systems,	our	credentials	also	extend	to
managing	things	like	API	keys	for	third-party	systems,	such	as	accounts	for	your
public	cloud	provider.	If	a	malicious	party	gains	access	to	your	root	AWS
account,	for	example,	they	could	decide	to	destroy	everything	running	in	that
account.	In	one	extreme	example,	such	an	attack	resulted	in	a	company	called
Code	Spaces
	going	out	of	business—all	of	their	resources	were	running	in	a
single	account,	backups	and	all.	The	irony	of	Code	Spaces	offering	“Rock	Solid,
Secure	and	Affordable	Svn	Hosting,	Git	Hosting	and	Project	Management”	is
not	lost	on	me.
Even	if	someone	gets	hold	of	your	API	keys	for	your	cloud	provider	and	doesn’t
decide	to	destroy	everything	you’ve	built,	they	might	decide	to	spin	up	some
expensive	virtual	machines	to	run	some	bitcoin	mining	in	the	hope	that	you
6
7
--- PAGE 443 ---
won’t	notice.	This	happened	to	one	of	my	clients,	who	discovered	that	someone
had	spent	over	$10K	doing	just	this	before	the	account	was	shut	down.	It	turns
out	that	attackers	know	how	to	automate	too—there	are	bots	out	there	that	will
just	scan	for	credentials	and	try	to	use	them	to	launch	machines	for
cryptocurrency	mining.
Secrets
Broadly
	speaking,	secrets	are	critical	pieces	of	information	that	a	microservice
needs	to	operate	and	that	are	also	sensitive	enough	that	they	require	protecting
from	malicious	parties.	Examples	of	secrets	that	a	microservice	might	need
include:
Certificates	for	TLS
SSH	keys
Public/private	API	keypairs
Credentials	for	accessing	databases
If
	we	consider	the	life	cycle	of	a	secret,	we	can	start	to	tease	apart	the	various
aspects	of	secrets	management	that	might	require	different	security	needs:
Creation
How	do	we	create	the	secret	in	the	first	place?
Distribution
Once	the	secret	is	created,	how	do	we	make	sure	it	gets	to	the	right	place
(and	only	the	right	place)?
Storage
Is	the	secret	stored	in	a	way	that	ensures	only	authorized	parties	can	access
it?
Monitoring
Do	we	know	how	this	secret	is	being	used?
--- PAGE 444 ---
Rotation
Are	we	able	to	change	the	secret	without	causing	problems?
If
	we	have	a	number	of	microservices,	each	of	which	might	want	different	sets	of
secrets,	we’re	going	to	need	to	use	tooling	to	help	manage	all	of	this.
Kubernetes
	provides	a	built-in	secrets	solution.	It	is	somewhat	limited	in	terms
of	functionality	but	does	come	as	part	of	a	basic	Kubernetes	install,	so	it	could
be	good	enough	for	many	use	cases.
If
	you	were	looking	for	a	more	sophisticated	tool	in	this	space,	Hashicorp’s	
Vault
is	worth	a	look.	An	open	source	tool	with	commercial	options	available,	it’s	a
veritable	Swiss	Army	knife	of	secrets	management,	handling	everything	from
the	basic	aspects	of	distributing	secrets	to	generating	time-limited	credentials	for
databases	and	cloud	platforms.	Vault	has	the	added	benefit	that	the	supporting
consul-template
	tool	is	able	to	dynamically	update	secrets	in	a	normal
configuration	file.	This	means	parts	of	your	system	that	want	to	read	secrets
from	a	local	filesystem	don’t	need	to	change	to	support	the	secrets	management
tool.	When	a	secret	is	changed	in	Vault,	consul-template	can	update	this	entry	in
the	configuration	file,	allowing	your	microservices	to	dynamically	change	the
secrets	they	are	using.	This	is	fantastic	for	managing	credentials	at	scale.
Some
	public	cloud	providers	also	offer	solutions	in	this	space;	for	example,
AWS	Secrets	Manager
	or	
Azure’s	Key	Vault
	come	to	mind.	Some	people	dislike
the	idea	of	storing	critical	secret	information	in	a	public	cloud	service	like	this,
however.	Again,	this	comes	down	to	your	threat	model.	If	it	is	a	serious	concern,
there	is	nothing	to	stop	you	from	running	Vault	on	your	public	cloud	provider	of
choice	and	handling	that	system	yourself.	Even	if	data	at	rest	is	stored	on	the
cloud	provider,	with	the	appropriate	storage	backend	you	can	ensure	that	the	data
is	encrypted	in	such	a	way	that	even	if	an	outside	party	got	hold	of	the	data	they
couldn’t	do	anything	with	it.
Rotation
Ideally,	we
	want	to	rotate	credentials	frequently	to	limit	the	damage	someone	can
do	if	they	gain	access	to	the	credentials.	If	a	malicious	party	gains	access	to	your
AWS	API	public/private	keypair	but	that	credential	is	changed	once	a	week,	they
8
--- PAGE 445 ---
have	only	one	week	in	which	to	make	use	of	the	credentials.	They	can	still	do	a
lot	of	damage	in	a	week	of	course,	but	you	get	the	idea.	Some	types	of	attackers
like	to	gain	access	to	systems	and	then	stay	undetected,	allowing	them	to	collect
more	valuable	data	over	time	and	find	ways	into	other	parts	of	your	system.	If
they	used	stolen	credentials	to	gain	access,	you	may	be	able	to	stop	them	in	their
tracks	if	the	credentials	they	use	expire	before	they	can	make	much	use	of	them.
A	great	example	of	rotation	for	operator	credentials	would	be	the	generation	of
time-limited	API	keys	for	using	AWS.	Many	organizations	now	generate	API
keys	on	the	fly	for	their	staff,	with	the	public	and	private	keypair	being	valid
only	for	a	short	period	of	time—typically	less	than	an	hour.	This	allows	you	to
generate	the	API	keys	you	need	to	carry	out	whatever	operation	is	needed,	safe
in	the	knowledge	that	even	if	a	malicious	party	subsequently	gains	access	to
these	keys,	they	will	be	unable	to	make	use	of	them.	Even	if	you	did	accidentally
check	that	keypair	into	public	GitHub,	it	would	be	no	use	to	anyone	once	it’s
expired.
The	use	of	time-limited	credentials	can	be	useful	for	systems	too.	Hashicorp’s
Vault	can	generate	time-limited	credentials	for	databases.	Rather	than	your
microservice	instance	reading	database	connection	details	from	a	configuration
store	or	a	text	file,	they	can	instead	be	generated	on	the	fly	for	a	specific	instance
of	your	microservice.
Moving	to	a	process	of	frequent	rotation	of	credentials	like	keys	can	be	painful.
I’ve	spoken	to	companies	that	have	experienced	incidents	as	a	result	of	key
rotation,	where	systems	stop	working	when	keys	are	changed.	This	is	often	due
to	the	fact	that	it	can	be	unclear	as	to	what	is	using	a	particular	credential.	If	the
scope	of	the	credential	is	limited,	the	potential	impact	of	rotation	is	significantly
reduced.	But	if	the	credential	has	broad	use,	working	out	the	impact	of	a	change
can	be	difficult.	This	isn’t	to	put	you	off	rotation	but	just	to	make	you	aware	of
the	potential	risks,	and	I	remain	convinced	it	is	the	right	thing	to	do.	The	most
sensible	way	forward	would	likely	be	to	adopt	tooling	to	help	automate	this
process	while	also	limiting	the	scope	of	each	set	of	credentials	at	the	same	time.
Revocation
Having
	a	policy	in	place	to	ensure	that	key	credentials	are	rotated	on	a	regular
basis	can	be	a	sensible	way	to	limit	the	impact	of	credential	leakage,	but	what
--- PAGE 446 ---
happens	if	you	
know
	that	a	given	credential	has	fallen	into	the	wrong	hands?	Do
you	have	to	wait	until	a	scheduled	rotation	kicks	in	for	that	credential	to	no
longer	be	valid?	That	may	not	be	practical—or	sensible.	Instead,	you’d	ideally
like	to	be	able	to	automatically	revoke	and	potentially	regenerate	credentials
when	something	like	this	happens.
The	use	of	tools	that	allow	for	centralized	secrets	management	can	help	here,	but
this	may	require	that	your	microservices	are	able	to	reread	newly	generated
values.	If	your	microservice	is	directly	reading	secrets	from	something	like	the
Kubernetes	secrets	store	or	Vault,	it	can	be	notified	when	these	values	have
changed,	allowing	your	microservice	to	make	use	of	the	changed	values.
Alternatively,	if	your	microservice	reads	these	secrets	only	on	startup,	then	you
may	need	to	do	a	rolling	restart	of	your	system	to	reload	these	credentials.	If	you
are	regularly	rotating	credentials,	though,	chances	are	you’ve	already	had	to
solve	the	problem	of	your	microservices	being	able	to	reread	this	information.	If
you’re	comfortable	with	regular	rotation	of	credentials,	chances	are	you’re
already	set	up	to	handle	emergency	revocation	as	well.
SCANNING	FOR	KEYS
Accidentally
	checking	in	private	keys	to	source	code	repositories	is	a
common	way	for	credentials	to	be	leaked	to	unauthorized	parties—it
happens	a	surprising	amount.	GitHub	automatically	scans	repositories	for
some	types	of	secrets,	but	you	can	also	run	your	own	scanning	too.	It	would
be	great	if	you	could	pick	up	secrets	before	you	check	in,	and	
git-secrets
	lets
you	do	just	that.	It	can	scan	existing	commits	for	potential	secrets,	but	by
setting	it	up	as	a	commit	hook,	it	can	stop	commits	even	being	made.	There
is	also	the	similar	
gitleaks
,	which,	in	addition	to	supporting	pre-commit
hooks	and	general	scanning	of	commits,	has	a	few	features	that	make	it
potentially	more	useful	as	a	general	tool	for	scanning	local	files.
Limiting	scope
Limiting
	the	scope	of	credentials	is	core	to	the	idea	of	embracing	the	principle	of
least	privilege.	This	can	apply	across	all	forms	of	credentials,	but	limiting	the
scope	of	what	a	given	set	of	credentials	gives	you	access	to	can	be	incredibly
--- PAGE 447 ---
useful.	For	example,	in	
Figure	11-1
,	each	instance	of	the	
Inventory
microservice	is	given	the	same	username	and	password	for	the	supporting
database.	We	also	provide	read-only	access	to	the	supporting	
Debezium
	process
that	will	be	used	to	read	data	and	send	it	out	via	Kafka	as	part	of	an	existing	ETL
process.	If	the	username	and	password	for	the	microservices	are	compromised,
an	external	party	could	theoretically	gain	read	and	write	access	to	the	database.
If	they	gained	access	to	the	Debezium	credentials,	though,	they’d	only	have
read-only	access.
Figure	11-1.	
Limiting	scope	of	credentials	to	limit	the	impact	of	misuse
Limiting	scope	can	apply	in	terms	of	both	what	the	set	of	credentials	can	access
and	also	who	has	access	to	that	set	of	credentials.	In	
Figure	11-2
,	we’ve	changed
--- PAGE 448 ---
things	such	that	each	instance	of	
Inventory
	gets	a	different	set	of	credentials.
This	means	that	we	could	rotate	each	credential	independently,	or	just	revoke	the
credential	for	one	of	the	instances	if	that	is	what	becomes	compromised.
Moreover,	with	more	specific	credentials	it	can	be	easier	to	find	out	from	where
and	how	the	credential	was	obtained.	There	are	obviously	other	benefits	that
come	from	having	a	uniquely	identifiable	username	for	a	microservice	instance
here;	it	might	be	easier	to	track	down	which	instance	caused	an	expensive	query,
for	example.
Figure	11-2.	
Each	instance	of	
Inventory
	has	its	own	access	credentials	for	the	database,	further	limiting
access
As	we’ve	already	covered,	managing	fine-grained	credentials	at	scale	can	be
complex,	and	if	you	did	want	to	adopt	an	approach	like	this,	some	form	of
automation	would	be	essential—secret	stores	like	Vault	come	to	mind	as	perfect
ways	to	implement	schemes	like	this.
Patching
The
	2017	Equifax	data	breach	is	a	great	example	of	the	importance	of	patching.
A	known	vulnerability	in	Apache	Struts	was	used	to	gain	unauthorized	access	to
--- PAGE 449 ---
data	held	by	Equifax.	Because	Equifax	is	a	credit	bureau,	this	information	was
especially	sensitive.	In	the	end	it	was	found	that	the	data	of	more	than	160
million	people	was	compromised	in	the	breach.	Equifax	ended	up	having	to	pay
a	$700	million	
settlement.
Months	before	the	breach,	the	vulnerability	in	Apache	Struts	had	been	identified,
and	a	new	release	had	been	made	by	the	maintainers	fixing	the	issue.
Unfortunately,	Equifax	hadn’t	updated	to	the	new	version	of	the	software,
despite	it	being	available	for	months	before	the	attack.	Had	Equifax	updated	this
software	in	a	timely	manner,	it	seems	probable	that	the	attack	wouldn’t	have
been	possible.
The	issue	of	keeping	on	top	of	patching	is	becoming	more	complex	as	we	deploy
increasingly	complex	systems.	We	need	to	become	more	sophisticated	in	how
we	handle	this	fairly	basic	concept.
Figure	11-3
	shows	an	example	of	the	layers	of	infrastructure	and	software	that
exist	underneath	a	typical	Kubernetes	cluster.	If	you	run	all	of	that	infrastructure
yourself,	you’re	in	charge	of	managing	and	patching	all	those	layers.	How
confident	are	you	that	you	are	up	to	date	with	your	patching?	Obviously,	if	you
can	offload	some	of	this	work	to	a	public	cloud	provider,	you	can	offload	part	of
this	burden	too.
--- PAGE 450 ---
Figure	11-3.	
The	different	layers	in	a	modern	infrastructure	that	all	require	maintenance	and	patching
If	you	were	to	use	a	managed	Kubernetes	cluster	on	one	of	the	main	public	cloud
vendors,	for	example,	you’d	drastically	reduce	your	scope	of	ownership,	as	we
see	in	
Figure	11-4
.
--- PAGE 451 ---
Figure	11-4.	
Offloading	responsibility	for	some	layers	of	this	stack	can	reduce	
complexity
Containers
	throw	us	an	interesting	curveball	here.	We	treat	a	given	container
instance	as	immutable.	But	a	container	contains	not	just	our	software	but	also	an
operating	system.	And	do	you	know	where	that	container	has	come	from?
Containers	are	based	on	an	image,	which	in	turn	can	extend	other	images—are
you	sure	the	base	images	you	are	using	don’t	already	have	backdoors	in	them?	If
you	haven’t	changed	a	container	instance	in	six	months,	that’s	six	months	worth
of	operating	system	patches	that	haven’t	been	applied.	Keeping	on	top	of	this	is
problematic,	which	is	why	companies	like	
Aqua
	provide	tooling	to	help	you
analyze	your	running	production	containers	so	you	can	understand	what	issues
need	to	be	addressed.
At	the	very	top	of	this	set	of	layers,	of	course,	is	our	application	code.	Is	that	up
to	date?	It’s	not	just	the	code	
we
	write;	what	about	the	third-party	code	we	use?
--- PAGE 452 ---
A	bug	in	a	third-party	library	can	leave	our	application	vulnerable	to	attack.	In
the	case	of	the	Equifax	breach,	the	unpatched	vulnerability	was	actually	in	Struts
—a	Java	web	
framework.
At	scale,	working	out	which	microservices	are	linking	to	libraries	with	known
vulnerabilities	can	be	incredibly	difficult.	This	is	an	area	in	which	I	strongly
recommend	the	use	of	tools	like	Snyk	or	GitHub	code	scanning,	which	is	able	to
automatically	scan	your	third-party	dependencies	and	alert	you	if	you	are	linking
to	libraries	with	known	vulnerabilities.	If	it	finds	any,	it	can	send	you	a	pull
request	to	help	update	to	the	latest	patched	versions.	You	can	even	build	this	into
your	CI	process	and	have	a	microservice	build	fail	if	it	links	to	libraries	with
issues.
Backups
So
	I	sometimes	think	that	taking	backups	is	like	flossing,	in	that	lots	more
people	say	they	do	it	than	actually	do.	I	don’t	feel	the	need	to	restate	the
argument	for	backups	too	much	here,	other	than	to	say:	you	should	take	backups,
because	data	is	valuable,	and	you	don’t	want	to	lose	it.
Data	is	more	valuable	than	ever,	and	yet	I	sometimes	wonder	if	improvements	in
technology	have	caused	us	to	deprioritize	backups.	Disks	are	more	reliable	than
they	used	to	be.	Databases	are	more	likely	to	have	built-in	replication	to	avoid
data	loss.	With	such	systems,	we	may	convince	ourselves	that	we	don’t	need
backups.	But	what	if	a	catastrophic	error	occurs	and	your	entire	Cassandra
cluster	is	wiped	out?	Or	what	if	a	coding	bug	means	your	application	actually
deletes	valuable	data?	Backups	are	as	important	as	ever.	So	please,	back	up	your
critical	data.
With	the	deployment	of	our	microservices	being	automated,	we	don’t	need	to
take	full	machine	backups,	as	we	can	rebuild	our	infrastructure	from	source
code.	So	we’re	not	trying	to	copy	the	state	of	entire	machines;	we	instead	target
our	backups	to	the	state	that	is	most	valuable.	This	means	that	our	focus	for
backups	is	limited	to	things	like	the	data	in	our	databases,	or	perhaps	our
application	logs.	With	the	right	filesystem	technology,	it’s	possible	to	take	near-
instantaneous	block-level	clones	of	a	database’s	data	without	noticeably
interrupting	service.
--- PAGE 453 ---
AVOID	THE	SCHRÖDINGER	BACKUP
When
	creating	backups,	you	want	to	avoid	what	I	call	the	Schrödinger	backup.
	This	is	a
backup	that	may	or	may	not	actually	be	a	backup.	Until	you	actually	try	and	restore	it,	you
really	don’t	know	if	it’s	actually	a	backup	use,
	or	if	it’s	just	a	bunch	of	1s	and	0s	written	to
disk.	The	best	way	to	avoid	this	problem	is	to	ensure	that	the	backup	is	real	by	actually
restoring	it.	Find	ways	to	build	regular	restoration	of	backups	into	your	software	development
process—for	example,	by	using	production	backups	to	build	your	performance	test	data.
The
	“old”	guidance	about	backups	is	that	they	should	be	kept	off-site,	the	idea
being	that	an	incident	in	your	offices	or	data	center	wouldn’t	affect	your	backups
if	they	were	elsewhere.	What	does	“off-site”	mean,	though,	if	your	application	is
deployed	in	a	public	cloud?	What	matters	is	that	your	backups	are	stored	in	a
way	that	they	are	as	isolated	as	possible	from	your	core	systems,	so	that	a
compromise	in	the	core	system	won’t	also	put	your	backups	at	risk.	Code
Spaces,	which	we	mentioned	earlier,	had	backups—but	they	were	stored	on
AWS	in	the	same	account	that	was	compromised.	If	your	application	runs	on
AWS,	you	could	still	store	your	backups	there	too,	but	you	should	do	so	on	a
separate	account	on	separate	cloud	resources—you	might	even	want	to	consider
putting	them	into	a	different	cloud	region	to	mitigate	the	risk	of	a	region-wide
issue,	or	you	could	even	store	them	with	another	provider.
So	make	sure	you	back	up	critical	data,	keep	those	backups	in	a	system	separate
to	your	main	production	environment,	and	make	sure	the	backups	actually	work
by	regularly	restoring	them.
Rebuild
We
	can	do	our	best	to	ensure	that	a	malicious	party	doesn’t	gain	access	to	our
systems,	but	what	happens	if	they	do?	Well,	often	the	most	important	thing	you
can	do	in	the	initial	aftermath	is	get	the	system	up	and	running	again,	but	in	such
a	way	that	you	have	removed	access	from	the	unauthorized	party.	This	isn’t
always	straightforward,	though.	I	recall	one	of	our	machines	being	hacked	many
years	ago	by	a	rootkit.	A	rootkit	is	a	bundle	of	software	that	is	designed	to	hide
the	activities	of	an	unauthorized	party,	and	it’s	a	technique	commonly	used	by
attackers	who	want	to	remain	undetected,	allowing	them	time	to	explore	the
system.	In	our	case,	we	found	that	the	rootkit	had	altered	core	system	commands
9
10
--- PAGE 454 ---
like	
ls
	(listing	files)	or	
ps
	(to	show	
process
	listings)	to	hide	traces	of	the
external	attacker.	We	spotted	this	only	when	we	were	able	to	check	the	hashes	of
the	programs	running	on	the	machine	against	the	official	packages.	In	the	end,
we	basically	had	to	reinstall	the	entire	server	from	scratch.
The	ability	to	simply	wipe	a	server	from	existence	and	totally	rebuild	can	be
incredibly	effective	not	just	in	the	wake	of	a	known	attack	but	also	in	terms	of
reducing	the	impact	of	persistent	attackers.	You	might	not	be	aware	of	the
presence	of	a	malicious	party	on	your	system,	but	if	you	are	routinely	rebuilding
your	servers	and	rotating	credentials,	you	may	be	drastically	limiting	the	impact
of	what	they	can	do	without	your	realizing	it.
Your	ability	to	rebuild	a	given	microservice,	or	even	an	entire	system,	comes
down	to	the	quality	of	your	automation	and	backups.	If	you	can	deploy	and
configure	each	microservice	from	scratch	based	on	information	stored	in	source
control,	you’re	off	to	a	good	start.	Of	course,	you	need	to	combine	that	with	a
rock-solid	backup	restoration	process	for	the	data.	As	with	backups,	the	best	way
to	make	sure	automated	deployment	and	configuration	of	your	microservices
works	is	to	do	it	a	lot—and	the	easiest	way	to	achieve	that	is	just	to	use	the	same
process	for	rebuilding	a	microservice	as	you	do	for	every	deployment.	This	is	of
course	how	most	container-based	deployment	processes	work.	You	deploy	a	new
set	of	containers	running	the	new	version	of	your	microservice	and	shut	down
the	old	set.	Making	this	normal	operating	procedure	makes	a	rebuild	almost	a
nonevent.
There	is	one	caveat	here,	especially	if	you	are	deploying	on	a	container	platform
like	Kubernetes.	You	might	be	frequently	blowing	away	and	redeploying
container	instances,	but	what	about	the	underlying	container	platform	itself?	Do
you	have	the	ability	to	rebuild	that	from	scratch?	If	you’re	using	a	fully	managed
Kubernetes	provider,	spinning	up	a	new	cluster	might	not	be	too	difficult,	but	if
you’ve	installed	and	manage	the	cluster	yourself,	then	this	may	be	a	nontrivial
amount	of	work.
TIP
Being	able	to	rebuild	your	microservice	and	recover	its	data	in	an	automated	fashion	helps	you
recover	in	the	wake	of	an	attack	and	also	has	the	advantage	of	making	your	deployments	easier
across	the	board,	having	positive	benefits	for	development,	test,	and	production	operations
--- PAGE 455 ---
activities.
Implicit	Trust	Versus	Zero	Trust
Our
	microservice	architecture	consists	of	lots	of	communication	between	things.
Human	users	interact	with	our	system	via	user	interfaces.	These	user	interfaces
in	turn	make	calls	to	microservices,	and	microservices	end	up	calling	yet	more
microservices.	When	it	comes	to	application	security,	we	need	to	consider	the
issue	of	trust	among	all	those	points	of	contact.	How	do	we	establish	an
acceptable	level	of	trust?	We’ll	explore	this	topic	shortly	in	terms	of
authentication	and	authorization	of	both	humans	and	microservices,	but	before
that	we	should	consider	some	fundamental	models	around	trust.
Do	we	trust	everything	running	in	our	network?	Or	do	we	view	everything	with
suspicion?	Here,	we	can	consider	two	mindsets—implicit	trust	and	zero	trust.
Implicit	Trust
Our
	first	option	could	be	to	just	assume	that	any	calls	to	a	service	made	from
inside	our	perimeter	are	implicitly	trusted.
Depending	on	the	sensitivity	of	the	data,	this	might	be	fine.	Some	organizations
attempt	to	ensure	security	at	the	perimeter	of	their	networks,	and	they	therefore
assume	they	don’t	need	to	do	anything	else	when	two	services	are	talking
together.	However,	should	an	attacker	penetrate	your	network,	all	hell	could
break	loose.	If	the	attacker	decides	to	intercept	and	read	the	data	being	sent,
change	the	data	without	you	knowing,	or	even	in	some	circumstances	pretend	to
be	the	thing	you	are	talking	to,	you	may	not	know	much	about	it.
This	is	by	far	the	most	common	form	of	inside-perimeter	trust	I	see	in
organizations.	I’m	not	saying	that	is	a	good	thing!	For	most	of	the	organizations
I	see	using	this	model,	I	worry	that	the	implicit	trust	model	is	not	a	conscious
decision;	rather,	people	are	unaware	of	the	risks	in	the	first	place.
Zero	Trust
“Jill,	we’ve	traced	the	call—it’s	coming	from	inside	the	house!”
--- PAGE 456 ---
—
When	a	Stranger	Calls
When
	operating	in	a	zero-trust	environment,	you	have	to	
assume
	that	you	are
operating	in	an	environment	that	has	already	been	compromised—the	computers
you	are	talking	to	could	have	been	compromised,	the	inbound	connections	could
be	from	hostile	parties,	the	data	you	are	writing	could	be	read	by	bad	people.
Paranoid?	Yes!	Welcome	to	zero	trust.
Zero	trust,	fundamentally,	is	a	mindset.	It’s	not	something	you	can	magically
implement	using	a	product	or	tool;	it’s	an	idea	and	that	idea	is	that	if	you	operate
under	the	assumption	that	you	are	operating	in	a	hostile	environment	in	which
bad	actors	could	already	be	present,	then	you	have	to	carry	out	precautions	to
make	sure	that	you	can	still	operate	safely.	In	effect,	the	concept	of	a	“perimeter”
is	meaningless	with	zero	trust	(for	this	reason,	zero	trust	is	often	also	known	as
“perimeterless	
computing”).
Since	you	are	assuming	your	system	has	been	compromised,	all	inbound	calls
from	other	microservices	have	to	be	properly	assessed.	
Is	this	really	a	client	I
should	trust?
	Likewise,	all	data	should	be	stored	safely	and	all	encryption	keys
held	securely,	and	as	we	have	to	assume	someone	is	listening,	all	sensitive	data
in	transit	within	our	system	needs	to	be	encrypted.
Interestingly,	if	you	have	properly	implemented	a	zero-trust	mindset,	you	can
start	to	do	things	that	seem	pretty	odd:
[With	zero	trust]	you	can	actually	make	certain	counter-intuitive	access
decisions	and	for	example	allow	connections	to	internal	services	from	the
internet	because	you	treat	your	“internal”	network	as	equally	trustworthy	as
the	internet	(i.e.,	not	at	all).
—
Jan	Schaumann
Jan’s	argument	here	is	that	if	you	assume	that	nothing	inside	your	network	is	to
be	trusted,	and	that	trust	has	to	be	reestablished,	you	can	be	much	more	flexible
about	the	environment	in	which	your	microservice	lives—you	aren’t	expecting
the	wider	environment	to	be	secure.	But	remember,	zero	trust	isn’t	something
you	turn	on	with	a	switch.	It’s	an	underlying	principle	for	how	you	decide	to	do
things.	It	has	to	drive	your	decision	making	about	how	you	build	and	evolve
your	system—it’s	going	to	be	something	that	you	have	to	constantly	invest	in	to
get	the	rewards.
11
--- PAGE 457 ---
It’s	a	Spectrum
I	don’t	mean	to	imply	that	you	have	a	stark	choice	between	implicit	and	zero
trust.	The	extent	to	which	you	trust	(or	don’t)	other	parties	in	your	system	could
change	based	on	the	sensitivity	of	the	information	being	accessed.	You	might
decide,	for	example,	to	adopt	a	concept	of	zero	trust	for	any	microservices
handling	PII	but	be	more	relaxed	in	other	areas.	Again,	the	cost	of	any	security
implementation	should	be	justified	(and	driven)	by	your	threat	model.	Let	your
understanding	of	your	threats	and	their	associated	impact	drive	your	decision
making	around	whether	or	not	zero	trust	is	worth	it	to	you.
As	an	example,	lets	look	at	MedicalCo,	a	company	I	worked	with	that	managed
sensitive	healthcare	data	pertaining	to	individuals.	All	information	it	held	was
classified	based	on	a	fairly	sensible	and	straightforward	approach:
Public
Data	that	could	be	freely	shared	with	any	external	party.	This	information	is
effectively	in	the	public	domain.
Private
Information	that	should	be	available	only	to	logged-in	users.	Access	to	this
information	could	be	further	limited	due	to	authorization	restrictions.	This
might	include	things	such	as	which	insurance	plan	a	customer	was	on.
Secret
Incredibly	sensitive	information	about	individuals	that	could	be	accessed	by
people	other	than	the	individual	in	question	only	in	extremely	specific
situations.	This	includes	information	about	an	individual’s	health	data.
Microservices	were	then	categorized	based	on	the	most	sensitive	data	they	used
and	had	to	run	in	a	matching	environment	(zone)	with	matching	controls,	as	we
see	in	
Figure	11-5
.	A	microservice	would	have	to	run	in	the	zone	matching	the
most	sensitive	data	it	made	use	of.	For	example,	a	microservice	running	in	the
public	zone	could	use	only	public	data.	On	the	other	hand,	a	microservice	that
used	public	and	private	data	had	to	run	in	the	private	zone,	and	a	microservice
that	accessed	secret	information	always	had	to	run	in	the	secret	zone.
--- PAGE 458 ---
Figure	11-5.	
Deploying	microservices	into	different	zones	based	on	the	sensitivity	of	the	data	they	handle
Microservices	within	each	zone	could	communicate	with	each	other	but	were
unable	to	directly	reach	across	to	access	data	or	functionality	in	the	lower,	more
secure	zones.	Microservices	in	the	more	secure	zones	could	reach	up	to	access
functionality	running	in	the	less	secure	zones,	though.
Here,	MedicalCo	has	given	itself	the	flexibility	to	vary	its	approach	in	each
zone.	The	less	secure	public	zone	can	operate	in	something	closer	to	an	implicit
trust	environment,	whereas	the	secret	zone	assumes	zero	trust.	Arguably,	if
MedicalCo	were	to	adopt	a	zero-trust	approach	across	its	entire	system,	having
microservices	deployed	into	separate	zones	wouldn’t	be	required,	as	all	inter-
microservice	calls	would	require	additional	authentication	and	authorization.
That	said,	thinking	of	defense	in	depth	once	again,	I	can’t	help	thinking	I’d	still
consider	this	zoned	approach	given	the	sensitivity	of	the	data!
Securing	Data
As
	we	break	our	monolithic	software	apart	into	microservices,	our	data	moves
around	our	systems	more	than	before.	It	doesn’t	just	flow	over	networks;	it	also
sits	on	disk.	Having	more	valuable	data	spread	around	more	places	can	be	a
--- PAGE 459 ---
nightmare	when	it	comes	to	securing	our	application,	if	we	aren’t	careful.	Let’s
look	in	more	detail	at	how	we	can	protect	our	data	as	it	moves	over	networks,
and	as	it	sits	at	rest.
Data	in	Transit
The	nature	of	the	protections	you	have	will	depend	largely	on	the	nature	of	the
communication	protocols	you	have	picked.	If	you	are	using	HTTP,	for	example,
it	would	be	natural	to	look	at	using	HTTP	with	Transport	Layer	Security	(TLS),
a	topic	we’ll	expand	on	more	in	the	next	section;	but	if	you’re	using	alternative
protocols	such	as	communication	via	a	message	broker,	you	may	have	to	look	at
that	particular	technology’s	support	for	protecting	data	in	transit.	Rather	than
look	at	the	details	of	a	large	range	of	technology	in	this	space,	I	think	instead	it	is
important	to	consider	more	generically	the	four	main	areas	of	interest	when	it
comes	to	securing	data	in	transit,	and	to	look	at	how	these	concerns	could	be
addressed	with	HTTP	as	an	example.	Hopefully,	it	shouldn’t	be	too	difficult	for
you	to	map	these	ideas	to	whatever	communication	protocol	you	are	picking.
In	
Figure	11-6
	we	can	see	the	four	key	concerns	of	data	in	transit.
Figure	11-6.	
The	four	main	concerns	when	it	comes	to	data	in	transit
--- PAGE 460 ---
Let’s	look	at	each	concern	in	a	bit	more	detail.
Server	identity
One
	of	the	simplest	things	to	check	is	that	the	server	you	are	talking	to	is	exactly
who	it	claims	to	be.	This	is	important	because	a	malicious	party	could
theoretically	impersonate	an	endpoint—and	vacuum	up	any	useful	data	that	you
send	it.	Validating	server	identity	has	long	been	a	concern	on	the	public	internet,
leading	to	the	push	for	more	widespread	use	of	HTTPS—and	to	an	extent,	we
are	able	to	benefit	from	the	work	done	to	help	secure	the	public	internet	when	it
comes	to	managing	internal	HTTP	endpoints.
When	people	talk	about	“HTTPS,”	they	are	typically	referring	to	using	HTTP
with	TLS.
	With	most	communication	over	the	public	internet,	due	to	the
various	potential	attack	vectors	out	there	(unsecured	WiFi,	DNS	poisoning,	and
the	like),	it	is	vital	to	ensure	that	when	we	go	to	a	website	it	really	is	the	website
it	claims	to	be.	With	HTTPS,	our	browser	can	look	at	the	certificate	for	that
website	and	make	sure	it	is	valid.	It	is	a	highly	sensible	safety	mechanism
—“HTTPS	Everywhere”	has	become	a	rallying	cry	for	the	public	internet,	and
with	good	reason.
It’s	worth	noting	that	some	communication	protocols	that	use	HTTP	under	the
hood	can	take	advantage	of	HTTPS—so	we	can	easily	run	SOAP	or	gRPC	over
HTTPS	without	issue.	HTTPS	also	gives	us	additional	protections	over	and
above	simply	confirming	that	we	are	talking	to	whom	we	expect.	We’ll	come	to
that	shortly.
Client	identity
When
	we	refer	to	client	identity	in	this	context,	we	are	referring	to	the
microservice	making	a	call—so	we	are	trying	to	confirm	and	authenticate	the
identity	of	the	upstream	microservice.	We	will	be	looking	at	how	we	authenticate
humans	(users!)	a	bit	later	on.
We	can	verify	the	identity	of	a	client	in	a	number	of	ways.	We	could	ask	that	the
client	send	us	some	information	in	the	request	telling	us	who	they	are.	An
example	might	be	to	use	some	sort	of	shared	secret	or	a	client-side	certificate	to
sign	the	request.	When	the	server	has	to	verify	the	client	identity,	we	want	this	to
be	as	efficient	as	possible—I’ve	seen	some	solutions	(including	those	pushed	by
12
--- PAGE 461 ---
API	gateway	vendors)	that	involve	the	server	having	to	make	calls	to	central
services	to	check	client	identity,	which	is	pretty	nuts	when	you	consider	the
latency	implications.
I
	struggle	to	think	of	a	situation	in	which	I	would	verify	client	identity	without
also	verifying	server	identity—to	verify	both,	you	would	typically	end	up
implementing	some	form	of	
mutual	authentication
.	With	mutual	authentication,
both	parties	authenticate	each	other.	So	in	
Figure	11-6
,	the	
Order Processor
authenticates	the	
Payment
	microservice,	and	the	
Payment
	microservice
authenticates	the	
Order
	
Processor
.
We
	can	do	this	through	the	use	of	
mutual	TLS
,	in	which	case	both	the	client	and
server	make	use	of	certificates.	On	the	public	internet,	verifying	the	identity	of	a
client	device	is	typically	less	important	than	verifying	the	identity	of	the	human
using	that	device.	As	such,	mutual	TLS	is	rarely	used.	In	our	microservice
architecture,	though,	especially	where	we	might	be	operating	in	a	zero-trust
environment,	this	is	much	more	common.
The	challenge	with	implementing	schemes	like	mutual	TLS	has	historically	been
tooling.	Nowadays	this	is	less	of	an	issue.	Tools	like	Vault	can	make	distributing
certificates	much	easier,	and	wanting	to	simplify	the	use	of	mutual	TLS	is	one	of
the	main	reasons	for	people	to	implement	service	meshes,	which	we	explored	in
“Service	Meshes	and	API	Gateways”
.
Visibility	of	data
When	we	send	data	from	one	microservice	to	another,	can	someone	view	the
data?	For	some	information,	such	as	the	price	of	Peter	Andre	albums,	we	might
not	care	much	since	the	data	is	already	in	the	public	domain.	On	the	other	hand,
some	data	might	include	PII,	which	we	need	to	make	sure	is	protected.
When	you	use	either	plain	old	HTTPS	or	mutual	TLS,	data	won’t	be	visible	to
intermediate	parties—this	is	because	TLS	encrypts	the	data	being	sent.	This	can
be	problematic	if	you	explicitly	want	the	data	sent	in	the	open—for	example,
reverse	proxies	like	Squid	or	Varnish	are	able	to	cache	HTTP	responses,	but	that
isn’t	possible	with	HTTPS.
Manipulation	of	data
--- PAGE 462 ---
We	could	imagine	a	number	of	situations	in	which	manipulating	data	being	sent
could	be	bad—changing	the	amount	of	money	being	sent,	for	example.	So	in
Figure	11-6
,	we	need	to	make	sure	the	potential	attacker	is	unable	to	change	the
request	being	sent	to	
Payment
	from	the	
Order Processor
.
Typically,	the
	types	of	protections	that	make	data	invisible	will	also	ensure	that
the	data	can’t	be	manipulated	(HTTPS	does	that,	for	instance).	However,	we
could	decide	to	send	data	in	the	open	but	still	want	to	ensure	it	cannot	be
manipulated.	For	HTTP,	one	such	approach	is	to	use	a	
hash-based	message
authentication	code
	(HMAC)	to	sign	the	data	being	sent.	With	HMAC,	a	hash	is
generated	and	sent	with	the	data,	and	the	receiver	can	check	the	hash	against	the
data	to	confirm	that	the	data	hasn’t	been	changed.
Data	at	Rest
Data	lying	about	is	a	liability,	especially	if	it	is	sensitive.	Hopefully	we’ve	done
everything	we	can	to	ensure	attackers	cannot	breach	our	network,	and	also	that
they	cannot	breach	our	applications	or	operating	systems	to	get	access	to	the
underlying	data.	However,	we	need	to	be	prepared	in	case	they	do—defense	in
depth	is	key.
Many	of	the	high-profile	security	breaches	we	hear	of	involve	data	at	rest	being
acquired	by	an	attacker,	and	that	data	being	readable	by	the	attacker.	This
happens	either	because	the	data	was	stored	in	an	unencrypted	form	or	because
the	mechanism	used	to	protect	the	data	had	a	fundamental	flaw.
The	mechanisms	by	which	data	at	rest	can	be	protected	are	many	and	varied,	but
there	are	some	general	things	to	bear	in	mind.
Go	with	the	well	known
In	some	cases,	you	can	offload	the	job	of	encrypting	data	to	existing	software—
for	example,	by	making	use	of	your	database’s	built-in	support	for	encryption.
However,	if	you	find	a	need	to	encrypt	and	decrypt	data	in	your	own	system,
make	sure	you’re	going	with	well-known	and	tested	implementations.	The
easiest	way	you	can	mess	up	data	encryption	is	to	try	to	implement	your	own
encryption	algorithms,	or	even	try	to	implement	someone	else’s.	Whatever
programming	language	you	use,	you’ll	have	access	to	reviewed,	regularly
--- PAGE 463 ---
patched	implementations	of	well-regarded	encryption	algorithms.	Use	those!
And	subscribe	to	the	mailing	lists/advisory	lists	for	the	technology	you	choose	to
make	sure	you	are	aware	of	vulnerabilities	as	they	are	found,	so	you	can	keep
them	patched	and	up	to	date.
For
	securing	passwords,	you	should	absolutely	be	using	a	technique	called	
salted
password	hashing
.	
This	ensures	that	passwords	are	never	held	in	plain	text,	and
that	even	if	an	attacker	brute-forces	one	hashed	password	they	cannot	then
automatically	read	other	passwords.
Badly	implemented	encryption	could	be	worse	than	having	none,	as	the	false
sense	of	security	(pardon	the	pun)	can	lead	you	to	take	your	eye	off	the	ball.
Pick	your	targets
Assuming	everything	should	be	encrypted	can	simplify	things	somewhat.	There
is	no	guesswork	about	what	should	or	should	not	be	protected.	However,	you’ll
still	need	to	think	about	what	data	can	be	put	into	logfiles	to	help	with	problem
identification,	and	the	computational	overhead	of	encrypting	everything	can
become	pretty	onerous	and	require	more	powerful	hardware	as	a	result.	This	is
even	more	challenging	when	you’re	applying	database	migrations	as	part	of
refactoring	schemas.	Depending	on	the	changes	that	are	being	made,	the	data
may	need	to	be	decrypted,	migrated,	and	
reencrypted.
By	subdividing	your	system	into	more	fine-grained	services,	you	might	identify
an	entire	data	store	that	can	be	encrypted	wholesale,	but	that	is	unlikely.	Limiting
this	encryption	to	a	known	set	of	tables	is	a	sensible	approach.
Be	frugal
As	disk	space	becomes	cheaper	and	the	capabilities	of	databases	improve,	the
ease	with	which	bulk	amounts	of	information	can	be	captured	and	stored	is
improving	rapidly.	This	data	is	valuable—not	only	to	businesses	themselves,
which	increasingly	see	data	as	a	valuable	asset,	but	equally	to	the	users	who
value	their	own	privacy.	The	data	that	pertains	to	an	individual	or	that	could	be
used	to	derive	information	about	an	individual	must	be	the	data	that	we	are	most
careful	with.
However,	what	if	we	made	our	lives	a	bit	easier?	Why	not	scrub	as	much
information	as	possible	that	can	be	personally	identifiable,	and	do	it	as	soon	as
13
--- PAGE 464 ---
possible?	When	logging	a	request	from	a	user,	do	we	need	to	store	the	entire	IP
address	forever,	or	could	we	replace	the	last	few	digits	with	
x
?	Do	we	need	to
store	someone’s	name,	age,	gender,	and	date	of	birth	in	order	to	provide	them
with	product	offers,	or	is	their	age	range	and	postal	code	enough	information?
The	advantages	to	being	frugal	with	data	collection	are	manifold.	First,	if	you
don’t	store	it,	no	one	can	steal	it.	Second,	if	you	don’t	store	it,	no	one	(e.g.,	a
governmental	agency)	can	ask	for	it	either!
The	German	phrase	
Datensparsamkeit
	represents	this	concept.	Originating	from
German	privacy	legislation,	it	encapsulates	the	concept	of	storing	only	as	much
information	as	is	
absolutely	required
	to	fulfill	business	operations	or	satisfy	local
laws.
This	is	obviously	in	direct	tension	with	the	move	toward	storing	more	and	more
information,	but	realizing	that	this	tension	even	exists	is	a	good	start!
It’s	all	about	the	keys
Most
	forms	of	encryption	involves	making	use	of	some	key	in	conjunction	with
a	suitable	algorithm	to	create	encrypted	data.	To	decrypt	the	data	so	it	can	be
read,	authorized	parties	will	need	access	to	a	key—either	the	same	key	or	a
different	key	(in	the	case	of	public-key	encryption).	So	where	are	your	keys
stored?	Now,	if	I	am	encrypting	my	data	because	I	am	worried	about	someone
stealing	my	whole	database,	and	I	store	the	key	I	use	in	the	same	database,	then	I
haven’t	really	achieved	much!	Therefore,	we	need	to	store	the	keys	somewhere
else.	But	where?
One	solution	is	to	use	a	separate	security	appliance	to	encrypt	and	decrypt	data.
Another	is	to	use	a	separate	key	vault	that	your	service	can	access	when	it	needs
a	key.	The	life-cycle	management	of	the	keys	(and	access	to	change	them)	can	be
a	vital	operation,	and	these	systems	can	handle	this	for	you.	This	is	where
HashiCorp’s	Vault	can	also	come	in	very	handy.
Some	databases	even	include	built-in	support	for	encryption,	such	as	SQL
Server’s	Transparent	Data	Encryption,	which	aims	to	handle	this	in	a	transparent
fashion.	Even	if	your	database	of	choice	does	include	such	support,	research	how
the	keys	are	
handled
	and	understand	if	the	threat	you	are	protecting	against	is
actually	being	
mitigated.
--- PAGE 465 ---
Again,	this	stuff	is	complex.	Avoid	implementing	your	own	encryption,	and	do
some	good	research!
TIP
Encrypt	data	when	you	first	see	it.	Only	decrypt	on	demand,	and	ensure	that	data	is	never
stored	anywhere.
Encrypt	backups
Backups
	are	good.	We	want	to	back	up	our	important	data.	And	it	may	seem	like
an	obvious	point,	but	if	the	data	is	sensitive	enough	that	we	want	it	to	be
encrypted	in	our	running	production	system,	then	we	will	probably	also	want	to
make	sure	that	any	backups	of	the	same	data	are	also	encrypted!
Authentication	and	Authorization
Authentication	and	authorization
	are	core	concepts	when	it	comes	to	people	and
things	that	interact	with	our	system.	In	the	context	of	security,	
authentication
	is
the	process	by	which	we	confirm	that	a	party	is	who	they	say	they	are.	We
typically	authenticate	a	human	user	by	having	them	type	in	their	username	and
password.	We	assume	that	only	the	actual	user	has	access	to	this	information,
and	therefore	
the	person	entering	this	information	must	be	them.	Other,	more
complex	systems	exist	as	well,	of	course.	Our	phones	now	let	us	use	our
fingerprint	or	face	to	confirm	that	we	are	who	we	say	we	are.	Generally,	when
we’re	talking	abstractly	about	who	or	what	is	being	authenticated,	we	refer	to
that	party	as	the
	
principal
.
Authorization
	is	the	mechanism	by	which	we	map	from	a	principal	to	the	action
we	are	allowing	them	to	do.	Often,	when	a	principal	is	authenticated,	we	will	be
given	information	about	them	that	will	help	us	decide	what	we	should	let	them
do.	We	might,	for	example,	be	told	what	department	or	office	they	work	in—a
piece	of	information	that	our	system	can	use	to	decide	what	the	principal	can	and
cannot	do.
Ease	of	use	is	important—we	want	to	make	it	easy	for	our	users	to	access	our
--- PAGE 466 ---
system.	We	don’t	want	everyone	to	have	to	log	in	separately	to	access	different
microservices,	using	a	different	username	and	password	for	each	one.	So	we	also
need	to	look	at	how	we	can	implement	single	sign-on	(SSO)	in	a	microservices
environment.
Service-to-Service	Authentication
Earlier
	we	discussed	mutual	TLS,	which,	aside	from	protecting	data	in	transit,
also	allows	us	to	implement	a	form	of	authentication.	When	a	client	talks	to	a
server	using	mutual	TLS,	the	server	is	able	to	authenticate	the	client,	and	the
client	is	able	to	authenticate	the	server—this	is	a	form	of	service-to-service
authentication.	Other	authentication	schemes	can	be	used	besides	mutual	TLS.	A
common	example	is	the	use	of	API	keys,	where	the	client	needs	to	use	the	key	to
hash	a	request	in	such	a	way	that	the	server	is	able	to	verify	that	the	client	used	a
valid	key.
Human	Authentication
We’re
	accustomed	to	humans	authenticating	themselves	with	the	familiar
username	and	password	combination.	Increasingly,	though,	this	is	being	used	as
part	of	a	multifactor	authentication	approach,	where	a	user	may	need	more	than
one	piece	of	knowledge	(a	
factor
)	to	authenticate	themselves.	Most	commonly,
this	takes	the	form	of	multifactor	authentication	(MFA),
	where	more	than	one
factor	is	needed.	MFA	would	most	commonly	involve	the	use	of	a	normal
username	and	password	combo,	in	addition	to	providing	at	least	one	additional
factor.
The	different	types	of	authentication	factors	have	grown	in	recent	years—from
codes	sent	over	SMS	and	magic	links	sent	via	email	to	dedicated	mobile	apps
like	
Authy
	and	USB	and	NFC	hardware	devices	like	the	
YubiKey
.	Biometric
factors	are	more	commonly	used	now	as	well,	as	users	have	more	access	to
hardware	that	supports	things	like	fingerprint	or	face	recognition.	While	MFA
has	shown	itself	to	be	much	more	secure	as	a	general	approach,	and	many	public
services	support	it,	it	hasn’t	caught	on	as	a	mass	market	authentication	scheme,
although	I	do	expect	that	to	change.	For	managing	authentication	of	key	services
that	are	vital	to	the	running	of	your	software	or	allow	access	to	especially
sensitive	information	(e.g.,	source	code	access),	I’d	consider	the	use	of	MFA	to
14
--- PAGE 467 ---
be	a	must.
Common	Single	Sign-On	Implementations
A
	common	approach	to	authentication	is	to	use	some	sort	of	single	sign-on
(SSO)	solution	to	ensure	that	a	user	has	only	to	authenticate	themselves	only
once	per	session,	even	if	during	that	session	they	may	end	up	interacting	with
multiple	downstream	services	or	applications.	For	example,	when	you	log	in
with	your	Google	account,	you	are	logged	in	on	Google	Calendar,	Gmail,	and
Google	Docs,	even	though	these	are	separate	systems.
When
	a	principal	tries	to	access	a	resource	(like	a	web-based	interface),	they	are
directed	to	authenticate	with	an	
identity	provider
.	The	identity	provider	may	ask
them	to	provide	a	username	and	password	or	might	require	the	use	of	something
more	advanced	like	MFA.	Once	the	identity	provider	is	satisfied	that	the
principal	has	been	authenticated,	it	gives	information	to	the	
service	provider
,
allowing	it	to	decide	whether	to	grant	them	access	to	the	resource.
This
	identity	provider	could	be	an	externally	hosted	system	or	something	inside
your	own	organization.	Google,	for	example,	provides	an	OpenID	Connect
identity	provider.	For	enterprises,	though,	it	is	common	to	have	your	own
identity	provider,	which	may	be	linked	to	your	company’s	
directory	service
.	A
directory	service	could	be	something	like	the	Lightweight	Directory	Access
Protocol	(LDAP)	or	Active	Directory.	These	systems	allow	you	to	store
information	about	principals,	such	as	what	roles	they	play	in	the	organization.
Often	the	directory	service	and	the	identity	
provider
	are	one	and	the	same,	while
at	other	times	they	are	separate	but	linked.	Okta,	for	example,	is	a	hosted	SAML
identity	provider	that	handles	tasks	like	two-factor	authentication	but	can	link	to
your	company’s	directory	services	as	the	source	of	truth.
So	the	identity	provider	gives	the	system	information	about	who	the	principal	is,
but	the	system	decides	what	that	principal	is	allowed	to	do.
SAML
	is	a	SOAP-based	standard	and	is	known	for	being	fairly	complex	to	work
with	despite	the	libraries	and	tooling	available	to	support	it,	and	since	the	first
edition	of	this	book	it	has	rapidly	fallen	out	of	favor.
	OpenID	Connect	is	a
standard	that	has	emerged	as	a	specific	implementation	of	OAuth	2.0,	based	on
the	way	Google	and	others	handle	SSO.	It	uses	simpler	REST	calls,	and	due	in
15
--- PAGE 468 ---
part	to	its	relative	simplicity	and	widespread	support,	it	is	the	dominant
mechanism	for	end-user	SSO,	and	has	gained	significant	inroads	into	enterprises.
Single	Sign-On	Gateway
We
	could	decide	to	handle	the	redirection	to,	and	handshaking	with,	the	identity
provider	within	each	microservice,	so	that	any	unauthenticated	request	from	an
outside	party	is	properly	dealt	with.	Obviously,	this	could	mean	a	lot	of
duplicated	functionality	across	our	microservices.	A	shared	library	could	help,
but	
we’d
	have	to	be	careful	to	avoid	the	coupling	that	can	come	from	shared
code	(see	
“DRY	and	the	Perils	of	Code	Reuse	in	a	Microservice	World”
	for
more).	A	shared	library	also	wouldn’t	help	if	we	had	microservices	written	in
different	technology	stacks.
Rather	than	having	each	service	manage	handshaking	with	our	identity	provider,
a	more	common	approach	is	to	use	a	gateway	to	act	as	a	proxy,	sitting	between
your	services	and	the	outside	world	(as	shown	in	
Figure	11-7
).	The	idea	is	that
we	can	centralize	the	behavior	for	redirecting	the	user	and	perform	the
handshake	in	only	one	place.
--- PAGE 469 ---
Figure	11-7.	
Using	a	gateway	to	handle	SSO
However,	we	still	need	to	solve	the	problem	of	how	the	downstream	service
receives	information	about	principals,	such	as	their	username	or	what	roles	they
play.	If	you’re	using	HTTP,	you	could	configure	your	gateway	to	populate
headers	with	this	information.	Shibboleth	is	one	tool	that	can	do	this	for	you,	and
I’ve	seen	it	used	with	the	Apache	web	server	to	handle	integration	with	SAML-
based	identity	providers,	to	great	effect.	An	alternative,	which	we’ll	look	at	in
more	detail	shortly,	is	to	create	a	JSON	Web	Token	(JWT)	containing	all	the
information	about	the	principal;	this	has	a	number	of	benefits,	including	being
something	we	can	more	easily	pass	from	microservice	to	microservice.
Another	consideration	with	using	a	single	sign-on	gateway	is	that	if	we	have
decided	to	offload	responsibility	for	authentication	to	a	gateway,	it	can	be	harder
to	reason	about	how	a	microservice	behaves	when	looking	at	it	in	isolation.
Remember	in	
Chapter	9
	when	we	explored	some	of	the	challenges	of
reproducing	production-like	environments?	If	you	decide	to	use	a	gateway,	make
--- PAGE 470 ---
sure	your	developers	can	launch	their	services	behind	one	without	too	much
work.
One	final	problem	with	this	approach	is	that	it	can	lull	you	into	a	false	sense	of
security.	Again,	I	like	to	return	to	the	idea	of	defense	in	depth—from	network
perimeter	to	subnet,	firewall,	machine,	operating	system,	and	the	underlying
hardware.	You	have	the	ability	to	implement	security	measures	at	all	of	these
points.	I	have	seen	some	people	put	all	their	eggs	in	one	basket,	relying	on	the
gateway	to	handle	every	step	for	them.	And	we	all	know	what	happens	when	we
have	a	single	point	of	
failure…
Obviously	you	could	use	this	gateway	to	do	other	things.	For	example,	you
could	also	decide	to	terminate	HTTPS	at	this	level,	run	intrusion	detection,	and
so	on.	Do	be	careful,	though.	Gateway	layers	tend	to	take	on	more	and	more
functionality,	which	itself	can	end	up	being	a	giant	coupling	point.	And	the	more
functionality	something	has,	the	greater	the	attack	surface.
Fine-Grained	Authorization
A
	gateway	may	be	able	to	provide	fairly	effective	coarse-grained	authentication.
For	example,	it	could	prevent	any	non-logged-in	users	from	accessing	the
helpdesk	application.	Assuming	our	gateway	can	extract	attributes	about	the
principal	as	a	result	of	the	authentication,	it	may	be	able	to	make	more	nuanced
decisions.	For	example,	it	is	common	to	place	people	in	groups	or	assign	them	to
roles.	We	can	use	this	information	to	understand	what	they	can	do.	So	for	the
helpdesk	application,	we	might	allow	access	only	to	principals	with	a	specific
role	(e.g.,	
STAFF
).	Beyond	allowing	(or	disallowing)	access	to	specific	resources
or	endpoints,	though,	we	need	to	leave	the	rest	to	the	microservice	itself;	it	will
need	to	make	further	decisions	about	what	operations	to	allow.
Back	to	our	helpdesk	application:	do	we	allow	any	staff	member	to	see	any	and
all	details?	More	likely,	we’ll	have	different	roles	at	work.	For	example,	a
principal	in	the	
CALL_CENTER
	group	might	be	allowed	to	view	any	piece	of
information	about	a	customer	except	their	payment	details.	This	principal	might
also	be	able	to	issue	refunds,	but	that	amount	might	be	capped.	Someone	who
has	the	
CALL_CENTER_TEAM_LEADER
	role,	however,	might	be	able	to	issue	larger
refunds.
--- PAGE 471 ---
These	decisions	need	to	be	local	to	the	microservice	in	question.	I	have	seen
people	use	the	various	attributes	supplied	by	identity	providers	in	horrible	ways,
using	really	fine-grained	roles	like	
CALL_CENTER_50_DOLLAR_REFUND
,	where
they	end	up	putting	information	specific	to	one	piece	of	microservice
functionality	into	their	directory	services.	This	is	a	nightmare	to	maintain	and
gives	very	little	scope	for	our	services	to	have	their	own	independent	life	cycle,
as	suddenly	a	chunk	of	information	about	how	a	service	behaves	lives	elsewhere,
perhaps	in	a	system	managed	by	a	different	part	of	the	organization.
Making	sure	the	microservice	has	the	information	it	needs	to	assess	finer-grained
authorization	requests	is	worthy	of	further	discussion—we’ll	revisit	this	when
we	look	at	JWTs	in	a	moment.
Instead,	favor	coarse-grained	roles	modeled	around	how	your	organization
works.	Going	all	the	way	back	to	the	early	chapters,	remember	that	we	are
building	software	to	match	how	our	organization	works.	So	use	your	roles	in	this
way	too.
The	Confused	Deputy	Problem
Having
	a	principal	authenticate	with	the	system	as	a	whole	using	something	like
an	SSO	gateway	is	simple	enough,	and	this	could	be	enough	to	control	access	to
a	given	microservice.	But	what	happens	if	that	microservice	then	needs	to	make
additional	calls	to	complete	an	operation?	This	can	leave	us	open	to	a	type	of
vulnerability	known	as	the	confused	deputy	problem.	This	occurs	when	an
upstream	party	tricks	an	intermediate	party	into	doing	things	it	shouldn’t	be
doing.	Let’s	look	at	a	concrete	example	in	
Figure	11-8
,	which	illustrates
MusicCorp’s	online	shopping	site.	Our	browser-based	JavaScript	UI	talks	to	the
server-side	
Web Shop
	microservice,	which	is	a	type	of	backend	for	frontend.
We’ll	explore	this	in	more	depth	in	
“Pattern:	Backend	for	Frontend	(BFF)”
,	but
for	the	moment,	think	of	it	as	a	server-side	component	that	performs	call
aggregation	and	filtering	for	a	specific	external	interface	(in	our	case,	our
browser-based	JavaScript	UI).	Calls	made	between	the	browser	and	the	
Web
Shop
	can	be	authenticated	using	OpenID	Connect.	So	far,	so	good.
--- PAGE 472 ---
Figure	11-8.	
An	example	where	a	confused	deputy	could	come	into	play
When	a	user	is	logged	in,	they	can	click	on	a	link	to	view	details	of	an	order.	To
display	the	information,	we	need	to	pull	back	the	original	order	from	the	
Order
service,	but	we	also	want	to	look	up	shipping	information	for	the	order.	So	when
a	logged-in	customer	clicks	a	link	for	
/orderStatus/12345
,	this	request	is
routed	to	
Web Shop
,	which	then	needs	to	make	calls	to	the	downstream	
Order
and	
Shipping
	microservices	asking	for	the	details	for	order	
12345
.
But	should	these	downstream	services	accept	the	calls	from	the	
Web Shop
?	We
could	adopt	a	stance	of	implicit	trust:	because	the	call	came	from	within	our
perimeter,	it	is	OK.	We	could	even	use	certificates	or	API	keys	to	confirm	that	it
really	is	the	
Web Shop
	asking	for	this	information.	But	is	this	enough?	For
example,	a	customer	who	is	logged	into	the	online	shopping	system	can	see	their
personal	account	details.	What	if	the	customer	could	trick	the	web	shop’s	UI	into
making	a	request	for	
someone	else’s
	details,	maybe	by	making	a	call	with	their
own	logged-in	credentials?
In	this	example,	what	is	to	stop	the	customer	from	asking	for	orders	that	are	not
theirs?	Once	logged	in,	they	could	start	sending	requests	for	other	orders	that
aren’t	theirs	to	see	if	they	could	get	useful	information.	They	could	start
guessing	order	IDs	to	see	if	they	could	extract	other	people’s	information.
Fundamentally,	what	has	happened	here	is	that	while	we	have	
authenticated
	the
--- PAGE 473 ---
user	in	question,	we	aren’t	providing	sufficient	
authorization
.	What	we	want	is
some	part	of	our	system	to	be	able	to	judge	that	a	request	to	see	User	A’s	details
can	be	granted	only	if	it’s	User	A	asking	to	see	them.	Where	does	this	logic	live,
though?
Centralized,	Upstream	Authorization
One
	option	for	avoiding	the	confused	deputy	problem	is	to	perform	all	required
authorization	as	soon	as	the	request	is	received	in	our	system.	In	
Figure	11-8
,
this	would	mean	that	we	would	aim	to	authorize	the	request	either	in	the	SSO
gateway	itself	or	in	the	
Web Shop
.	The	idea	is	that	by	the	time	the	calls	are	sent
to	the	
Order
	or	
Shipping
	microservice,	we	assume	that	the	requests	are	allowed.
This	form	of	upstream	authorization	effectively	implies	that	we	are	accepting
some	form	of	implicit	trust	(as	opposed	to	zero	trust)—the	
Shipping
	and	
Order
microservices	have	to	assume	they	are	only	being	sent	requests	that	they	are
allowed	to	fulfill.	The	other	issue	is	that	an	upstream	entity—for	example,	a
gateway	or	something	similar—needs	to	have	knowledge	of	what	functionality
downstream	microservices	provide,	and	it	needs	to	know	how	to	limit	access	to
that	functionality.
Ideally,	though,	we	want	our	microservices	to	be	as	self-contained	as	possible,	to
make	it	as	easy	as	possible	to	make	changes	and	roll	out	new	functionality.	We
want	our	releases	to	be	as	simple	as	possible—we	want	independent
deployability.	If	the	act	of	deployment	now	involves	both	deploying	a	new
microservice	and	applying	some	authorization-related	configuration	to	an
upstream	gateway,	then	that	doesn’t	seem	terribly	“independent”	to	me.
Therefore,	we’d	want	to	push	the	decision	about	whether	or	not	the	call	should
be	authorized	into	the	same	microservice	where	the	functionality	being	requested
lives.	This	makes	the	microservice	more	self-contained	and	also	gives	us	the
option	to	implement	zero	trust	if	we	want.
Decentralizing	Authorization
Given
	the	challenges	of	centralized	authorization	in	a	microservices
environment,	we’d	like	to	push	this	logic	to	the	downstream	microservice.	The
Order
	microservice	is	where	the	functionality	for	accessing	order	details	lives,
--- PAGE 474 ---
so	it	would	make	logical	sense	for	that	service	to	decide	if	the	call	is	valid.	In
this	specific	case,	though,	the	
Order
	microservice	needs	information	about	what
human	is	making	the	request.	So	how	do	we	get	that	information	to	the	
Order
microservice?
At	the	simplest	level,	we	could	just	require	that	the	identifier	for	the	person
making	the	request	be	sent	to	the	
Order
	microservice.	If	using	HTTP,	for
example,	we	could	just	stick	the	username	in	a	header.	But	in	such	a	case,	what’s
to	stop	a	malicious	party	from	inserting	just	any	old	name	into	the	request	to	get
the	information	they	need?	Ideally,	we	want	a	way	to	make	sure	that	the	request
is	
really
	being	made	on	behalf	of	an	authenticated	user	and	that	we	can	pass
along	additional	information	about	that	user—for	example,	the	groups	that	user
might	fall	in.
Historically,	there	are	a	variety	of	different	ways	that	this	has	been	handled
(including	techniques	like	nested	SAML	assertions,	which,	yes,	are	as	painful	as
they	sound),	but	recently	the	most	common	solution	to	this	particular	problem
has	been	to	use	JSON	Web	Tokens.
JSON	Web	Tokens
JWTs
	allow	you	to	store	multiple	claims	about	an	individual	into	a	string	that
can	be	passed	around.	This	token	can	be	signed	to	ensure	that	the	structure	of	the
token	hasn’t	been	manipulated,	and	it	can	also	optionally	be	encrypted	to	provide
cryptographic	guarantees	around	who	can	read	the	data.	Although	JWTs	can	be
used	for	generic	exchanges	of	information	where	it	is	important	to	ensure	that
the	data	hasn’t	been	tampered	with,	they	are	most	commonly	used	to	help
transmit	information	to	aid	authorization.
Once	signed,	the	JWTs	can	easily	be	passed	via	a	variety	of	protocols,	and	the
tokens	can	optionally	be	configured	to	expire	after	a	certain	period	of	time.	They
are	widely	supported,	with	a	number	of	identity	providers	that	support
generating	JWTs,	and	a	large	number	of	libraries	for	using	JWTs	inside	your
own	code.
Format
The	main	payload	of	a	JWT	is	a	JSON	structure,	which	broadly	speaking	can
--- PAGE 475 ---
contain	anything	you	want.	We	can	see	an	example	token	in	
Example	11-1
.	The
JWT	standard	does	
describe
	some	specifically	named	fields	(“public	claims”)
that	you	should	use	if	they	relate	to	you.	For	example,	
exp
	defines	the	expiration
date	of	a	token.	If	you	use	these	public	claim	fields	correctly,	there	is	a	good
chance	that	the	libraries	you	use	will	be	able	to	make	use	of	them	appropriately
—rejecting	a	token,	for	example,	if	the	
exp
	field	states	that	the	token	has	already
expired.
	Even	if	you	won’t	use	all	of	these	public	claims,	it’s	worth	being
aware	of	what	they	are	to	ensure	you	don’t	end	up	using	them	for	your	own
application-specific	uses,	as	this	could	cause	some	odd	behavior	in	supporting
libraries.
Example	11-1.	
An	example	of	the	JSON	payload	of	a	JWT
{
  
"sub"
:
 
"123"
,
  
"name"
:
 
"Sam Newman"
,
  
"exp"
:
 
1606741736
,
  
"groups"
:
 
"admin, beta"
}
In	
Example	11-2
,	we	see	the	token	from	
Example	11-1
	encoded.	This	token	is
really	just	a	single	string,	but	it	is	split	into	three	parts	delineated	with	a	“.”—the
header,	payload,	and	signature.
Example	11-2.	
The	result	of	encoding	a	JWT	payload
eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9. 
eyJzdWIiOiIxMjMiLCJuYW1lIjoiU2FtIE5ld21hbiIsImV4cCI6MTYwNjc0MTczNiwiZ3J... . 
Z9HMH0DGs60I0P5bVVSFixeDxJjGovQEtlNUi__iE_0 
The	header
The	payload	(truncated)
The	signature
For	the	benefit	of	the	example	here,	I	have	split	the	line	at	each	part,	but	in
reality	this	would	be	a	single	string	with	no	line	breaks.	The	header	contains
information	about	the	signing	algorithm	being	used.	This	allows	the	program
decoding	the	token	to	support	different	signing	schemes.	The	payload	is	where
we	store	information	about	the	claims	that	the	token	is	making—this	is	just	the
result	of	encoding	the	JSON	structure	in	
Example	11-1
.	The	signature	is	used	to
ensure	that	the	payload	hasn’t	been	manipulated,	and	it	can	also	be	used	to
16
--- PAGE 476 ---
ensure	that	the	token	was	generated	by	whom	you	think	it	was	(assuming	the
token	is	signed	with	a	private	key).
As	a	simple	string,	this	token	can	be	easily	passed	along	via	different
communication	protocols—as	a	header	in	HTTP	(in	the	
Authorization
	header),
for	example,	or	perhaps	as	a	piece	of	metadata	in	a	message.	This	encoded	string
can	of	course	be	sent	over	encrypted	transport	protocol—for	example,	TLS	over
HTTP—in	which	case	the	token	wouldn’t	be	visible	to	people	observing	the
communication.
Using	tokens
Let’s	take	a	look	at	a	common	way	to	use	JWT	tokens	in	a	microservice
architecture.	In	
Figure	11-9
,	our	customer	logs	in	as	normal,	and	once
authenticated	we	generate	some	sort	of	token	to	represent	their	logged-in	session
(likely	an	OAuth	token),	which	is	stored	on	the	client	device.	Subsequent
requests	from	that	client	device	hit	our	gateway,	which	generates	a	JWT	token
that	will	be	valid	for	the	duration	of	that	request.	It	is	this	JWT	token	that	is	then
passed	to	the	downstream	microservices.	They	are	able	to	validate	the	token	and
extract	claims	from	the	payload	to	determine	what	sort	of	authorization	is
appropriate.
--- PAGE 477 ---
Figure	11-9.	
A	JWT	token	is	generated	for	a	specific	request	and	passed	to	downstream	microservices
A	variation	to	this	approach	is	to	generate	a	JWT	token	when	the	user	initially
authenticates	themselves	with	the	system	and	then	have	that	JWT	token	stored
on	the	client	device.	It’s	worth	considering,	though,	that	such	a	token	will	have
to	be	valid	for	the	duration	of	the	logged-in	session;	as	we’ve	already	discussed,
we’d	like	to	limit	the	period	of	validity	for	system-generated	credentials	to
reduce	the	chances	of	them	being	misused,	and	to	reduce	the	impact	if	we	need
to	change	the	keys	that	are	used	for	generating	the	encoded	token.	Generating	a
JWT	token	on	a	per-request	basis	seems	to	be	the	most	common	solution	to	this
problem,	as	we	show	in	
Figure	11-9
.	Having	some	sort	of	token	exchange	done
in	the	gateway	can	also	make	it	much	easier	to	adopt	the	use	of	JWT	tokens
without	having	to	change	any	part	of	the	authentication	flow	that	involves
communication	with	the	client	device—if	you	already	have	a	working	SSO
solution	in	place,	hiding	the	fact	that	JWT	tokens	are	even	used	from	the	main
user	authentication	flow	will	make	such	a	change	less	disruptive.
So	with	suitable	JWT	token	generation,	our	downstream	microservices	are	able
to	get	all	the	information	they	need	to	confirm	the	identity	of	the	user	making	the
request,	as	well	as	additional	information	such	as	the	groups	or	roles	that	user	is
--- PAGE 478 ---
in.	The	validity	of	this	token	can	also	be	checked	by	the	microservice	simply	by
checking	the	signature	of	the	JWT	token	as	well.	Compared	to	the	previous
solutions	in	this	space	(such	as	nested	SAML	assertions),	JWT	tokens	have	made
the	process	of	decentralizing	authorization	in	a	microservice	architecture	much
simpler.
Challenges
There	are	a	few	issues	around	JWT	tokens	that	are	worth	bearing	in	mind.	The
first	is	the	issue	of	keys.	In	the	case	of	signed	JWT	tokens,	to	verify	a	signature,
the	receiver	of	a	JWT	token	is	going	to	need	some	information	that	will	need	to
be	communicated	out	of	band—normally	a	public	key.	All	the	issues	of	key
management	apply	in	this	case.	How	does	the	microservice	get	the	public	key?
What	happens	if	the	public	key	needs	to	change?	Vault	is	an	example	of	a	tool
that	could	be	used	by	a	microservice	to	retrieve	(and	handle	rotation	of)	public
keys,	and	it	is	already	designed	to	work	in	a	highly	distributed	environment.	You
could	of	course	just	hardcode	a	public	key	in	a	configuration	file	for	the
receiving	microservice,	but	you	would	then	have	the	issue	of	dealing	with	the
public	key	changing.
Secondly,	getting	the	expiration	right	for	a	token	can	be	tricky	if	long	processing
times	are	involved.	Consider	a	situation	in	which	a	customer	has	placed	an	order.
This	kicks	off	a	set	of	asynchronous	processes	that	could	take	hours	if	not	days
to	complete,	without	any	subsequent	involvement	from	the	customer	(taking
payment,	sending	notification	emails,	getting	the	item	packaged	and	shipped,
etc.).	Do	you	therefore	have	to	generate	a	token	with	a	matching	period	of
validity?	The	question	here	is,	at	what	point	is	having	a	longer-lived	token	more
problematic	than	having	no	token?	I’ve	spoken	to	a	few	teams	that	have	dealt
with	this	issue.	Some	have	generated	a	special	longer-lived	token	that	is	scoped
to	work	in	only	this	specific	context;	others	have	just	stopped	using	the	token	at
a	certain	point	in	the	flow.	I’ve	not	yet	looked	at	enough	examples	of	this
problem	to	determine	the	right	solution	here,	but	it	is	an	issue	to	be	aware	of.
Finally,	in	some	situations	you	can	end	up	needing	so	much	information	in	the
JWT	token	that	the	token	size	itself	becomes	a	problem.	Although	this	situation
is	rare,	it	does	happen.	Several	years	ago	I	was	chatting	to	one	team	about	using
a	token	to	manage	authorization	for	a	particular	aspect	of	its	system	that	handled
rights	management	for	music.	The	logic	around	this	was	incredibly	complex—
--- PAGE 479 ---
my	client	worked	out	that	for	any	given	track	it	could	potentially	need	up	to
10,000	entries	in	a	token	to	deal	with	the	different	scenarios.	We	realized,
though,	that	at	least	in	that	domain,	it	was	only	one	particular	use	case	that
needed	this	large	amount	of	information,	whereas	the	bulk	of	the	system	could
make	do	with	a	simple	token	with	fewer	fields.	In	such	a	situation,	it	made	sense
to	deal	with	the	more	complex	rights	management	authorization	process	in	a
different	way—essentially	using	the	JWT	token	for	the	initial	“simple”
authorization,	and	then	doing	a	subsequent	lookup	on	a	data	store	to	fetch	the
additional	fields	as	required.	This	meant	the	bulk	of	the	system	could	just	work
off	the	tokens.
Summary
As	I	hope	I’ve	articulated	in	this	chapter,	building	a	secure	system	isn’t	about
doing	one	thing.	It	necessitates	a	holistic	view	of	your	system,	using	some	sort	of
threat	modeling	exercise,	to	understand	what	type	of	security	controls	need	to	be
put	in	place.
When	thinking	of	these	controls,	a	mix	is	essential	to	building	a	secure	system.
Defense	in	depth	doesn’t	just	mean	having	multiple	protections	in	place;	it	also
means	you	have	a	multifaceted	approach	to	building	a	more	secure	system.
We	also	return	again	to	a	core	theme	of	the	book:	having	a	system	decomposed
into	finer-grained	services	gives	us	many	more	options	for	solving	problems.
Not	only	can	having	microservices	potentially	reduce	the	impact	of	any	given
breach,	but	it	also	allows	us	to	consider	trade-offs	between	the	overhead	of	more
complex	and	secure	approaches,	where	data	is	sensitive,	and	a	more	lightweight
approach	when	the	risks	are	lower.
For	a	broader	look	at	application	security	in	general,	I	recommend	
Agile
Application	Security
	by	Laura	Bell	et	al.
Next,	we’ll	look	at	how	we	can	make	our	systems	more	reliable,	as	we	turn	to
the	topic	of	resilience.
1
	Please,	let’s	not	make	everything	about	Brexit.
2
	Try	as	I	might,	I	can’t	find	the	original	source	for	this	categorization	scheme.
17
--- PAGE 480 ---
3
	I	recommend	Jonny’s	
Understanding	Design	Thinking,	Lean,	and	Agile
	(O’Reilly)	for	more	of	his
insights.
4
	It	was	more	of	a	passive-aggressive	argument,	often	without	the	“passive”	bit.
5
	Adam	Shostack,	
Threat	Modeling:	Designing	for	Security
	(Indianapolis:	Wiley,	2014).
6
	Troy	Hunt,	“Passwords	Evolved:	Authentication	Guidance	for	the	Modern	Era,”	July	26,	2017,
https://oreil.ly/T7PYM
.
7
	Neil	McAllister,	“Code	Spaces	Goes	Titsup	FOREVER	After	Attacker	NUKES	Its	Amazon-Hosted
Data,”	
The	Register
,	June	18,	2014,	
https://oreil.ly/mw7PC
.
8
	Some	people	are	concerned	about	the	fact	that	secrets	are	stored	in	plain	text.	Whether	or	not	this	is
an	issue	for	you	depends	largely	on	your	threat	model.	For	the	secrets	to	be	read,	an	attacker	would
have	to	have	direct	access	to	the	core	systems	running	your	cluster,	at	which	point	it’s	arguable	that
your	cluster	is	already	hopelessly	compromised.
9
	I	definitely	came	up	with	this	term,	but	I	also	think	it	highly	probable	that	I’m	not	the	only	one.
10
	Just	as	Niels	Bohr	argued	that	Schrödinger’s	cat	was	both	alive	and	dead	until	you	actually	opened
the	box	to	check.
11
	Jan	Schaumann	(@jschauma),	Twitter,	November	5,	2020,	4:22	p.m.,	
https://oreil.ly/QaCm2
.
12
	The	“S”	in	“HTTPS”	used	to	relate	to	the	older	Secure	Socket	Layer	(SSL),	which	has	been	replaced
with	TLS	for	a	number	of	reasons.	Confusingly,	the	term	
SSL
	still	lingers	even	when	TLS	is	actually
being	used.	The	OpenSSL	library,	for	example,	is	actually	widely	used	to	implement	TLS,	and	when
you	are	issued	an	SSL	certificate,	it	will	actually	be	for	TLS.	We	don’t	make	things	easy	for
ourselves,	do	we?
13
	We	don’t	encrypt	passwords	at	rest,	as	encryption	means	that	anyone	with	the	right	key	can	read	the
password	back.
14
	Previously	we	would	talk	about	two-factor	authentication	(2FA).	MFA	is	the	same	concept	but
introduces	the	idea	that	we	often	now	allow	our	users	to	provide	an	additional	factor	from	a	variety	of
devices,	such	as	a	secure	token,	a	mobile	authentication	app,	or	perhaps	biometrics.	You	can	consider
2FA	to	be	a	subset	of	MFA.
15
	I	can’t	take	credit	for	that!
16
	The	
JWT	site
	has	an	excellent	overview	of	which	libraries	support	which	public	claims—it’s	a	great
resource	in	general	for	all	things	JWT.
17
	Laura	Bell	et	al.,	
Agile	Application	Security
	(Sebastopol:	O’Reilly,	2017).

================================================================================
Ch12 Resiliency (PDF pages 484-520)
================================================================================

--- PAGE 484 ---
place	in	advance.	For	example,	having	backups	in	place	can	allow	us	to	better
rebound	in	the	aftermath	of	data	loss	(assuming	our	backups	are	tested,	of
course!).	Improving	our	ability	to	rebound	could	also	include	having	a	playbook
we	can	run	through	in	the	wake	of	a	system	outage:	Do	people	understand	what
their	role	is	when	an	outage	occurs?	Who	will	be	the	point	person	for	handling
the	situation?	How	quickly	do	we	need	to	let	our	users	know	what	is	happening?
How	will	we	communicate	with	our	users?	Trying	to	think	clearly	about	how	to
handle	an	outage	while	the	outage	is	going	on	will	be	problematic	due	to	the
inherent	stress	and	chaos	of	the	situation.	Having	an	agreed	plan	of	action	in
place	in	anticipation	of	this	sort	of	problem	can	help	you	better	rebound.
Graceful	Extensibility
With
	rebound	and	robustness,	we	are	primarily	dealing	with	the	expected.	We
are	putting	mechanisms	in	place	to	deal	with	problems	that	we	can	foresee.	But
what	happens	when	we	are	surprised?	If	we	aren’t	prepared	for	surprise—for	the
fact	that	our	expected	view	of	the	world	might	be	wrong—we	end	up	with	a
brittle	system.	As	we	approach	the	limits	of	what	we	expect	our	system	to	be
able	to	handle,	things	fall	apart—we	are	unable	to	perform	adequately.
Flatter	organizations—where	responsibility	is	distributed	into	the	organization
rather	than	held	centrally—will	often	be	better	prepared	to	deal	with	surprise.
When	the	unexpected	occurs,	if	people	are	restricted	in	what	they	have	to	do,	if
they	have	to	adhere	to	a	strict	set	of	rules,	their	ability	to	deal	with	surprise	will
be	critically	
curtailed
.
Often,	in	a	drive	to	optimize	our	system,	we	can	as	an	unfortunate	side	effect
increase	the	brittleness	of	our	system.	Take	automation	as	an	example.
Automation	is	fantastic—it	allows	us	to	do	more	with	the	people	we	have,	but	it
can	also	allow	us	to	
reduce
	the	people	we	have,	as	more	can	be	done	with
automation.	This	reduction	in	staff	can	be	concerning,	though.	Automation	can’t
handle	surprise—our	ability	to	gracefully	extend	our	system,	to	handle	surprise,
comes	from	having	people	in	place	with	the	right	skills,	experience,	and
responsibility	to	handle	these	situations	as	they	arise.
Sustained	Adaptability
--- PAGE 485 ---
Having
	sustained	adaptability	requires	us	to	not	be	complacent.	As	David	Woods
puts	it:	“No	matter	how	good	we	have	done	before,	no	matter	how	successful
we’ve	been,	the	future	could	be	different,	and	we	might	not	be	well	adapted.	We
might	be	precarious	and	fragile	in	the	face	of	that	new	future.”
	That	we	haven’t
yet	suffered	from	a	catastrophic	outage	doesn’t	mean	that	it	cannot	happen.	We
need	to	challenge	ourselves	to	make	sure	we	are	constantly	adapting	what	we	do
as	an	organization	to	ensure	future	resiliency.	Done	right,	a	concept	like	chaos
engineering—which	we’ll	explore	briefly	later	in	this	chapter—can	be	a	useful
tool	in	helping	build	sustained	adaptability.
Sustained	adaptability	often	requires	a	more	holistic	view	of	the	system.	This	is,
paradoxically,	where	a	drive	toward	smaller,	autonomous	teams	with	increased
local,	focused	responsibility	can	end	with	us	losing	sight	of	the	bigger	picture.
As	we’ll	explore	in	
Chapter	15
,	there	is	a	balancing	act	between	global	and	local
optimization	when	it	comes	to	organizational	dynamics,	and	that	balance	isn’t
static.	In	that	chapter	we’ll	look	at	the	role	of	focused,	stream-aligned	teams	who
own	the	microservices	they	need	to	deliver	user-facing	functionality	and	have
increased	levels	of	responsibility	to	make	this	happen.	We’ll	also	look	at	the	role
of	enabling	teams,	who	support	these	stream-aligned	teams	in	doing	their	work,
and	at	how	enabling	teams	can	be	a	big	part	of	helping	achieve	sustained
adaptability	at	an	organizational	level.
Creating	a	culture	that	prioritizes	creating	an	environment	in	which	people	can
share	information	freely,	without	fear	of	retribution,	is	vital	to	encourage
learning	in	the	wake	of	an	incident.	Having	the	bandwidth	to	really	examine
such	surprises	and	extract	the	key	learnings	requires	time,	energy,	and	people—
all	things	that	will	reduce	the	resources	available	to	you	to	deliver	features	in	the
short	term.	Deciding	to	embrace	sustained	adaptability	is	partly	about	finding	the
balancing	point	between	short-term	delivery	and	longer-term	adaptability.
To	work	toward	sustained	adaptability	means	that	you	are	looking	to	discover
what	you	don’t	know.	This	requires	continuing	investment,	not	one-off
transactional	activities—the	term	
sustained
	is	important	here.	It’s	about	making
sustained	adaptability	a	core	part	of	your	organizational	strategy	and	culture.
And	Microservice	Architecture
As
	we’ve	discussed,	we	can	see	a	way	in	which	a	microservice	architecture	can
2
--- PAGE 486 ---
help	us	achieve	the	property	of	robustness,	but	it	is	not	enough	if	you	want
resiliency
.
Taken	more	broadly,	the	ability	to	deliver	resiliency	is	a	property	not	of	the
software	itself	but	of	the	people	building	and	running	the	system.	Given	the
focus	of	this	book,	much	of	what	follows	in	this	chapter	will	focus	primarily	on
what	a	microservice	architecture	can	help	deliver	in	terms	of	resiliency—which
is	almost	entirely	limited	to	improving	the	
robustness
	of	applications.
Failure	Is	Everywhere
We
	understand	that	things	can	go	wrong.	Hard	disks	can	fail.	Our	software	can
crash.	And	as	anyone	who	has	read	the	
fallacies	of	distributed	computing
	can	tell
you,	the	network	is	unreliable.	We	can	do	our	best	to	try	to	limit	the	causes	of
failure,	but	at	a	certain	scale,	failure	becomes	inevitable.	Hard	drives,	for
example,	are	more	reliable	now	than	ever	before,	but	they’ll	break	eventually.
The	more	hard	drives	you	have,	the	higher	the	likelihood	of	failure	for	an
individual	unit	on	any	given	day;	failure	becomes	a	statistical	certainty	at	scale.
Even	for	those	of	us	not	thinking	at	extreme	scale,	if	we	can	embrace	the
possibility	of	failure	we	will	be	better	off.	For	example,	if	we	can	handle	the
failure	of	a	microservice	gracefully,	then	it	follows	that	we	can	also	do	in-place
upgrades	of	a	service,	as	a	planned	outage	is	much	easier	to	deal	with	than	an
unplanned	one.
We	can	also	spend	a	bit	less	of	our	time	trying	to	stop	the	inevitable	and	a	bit
more	of	our	time	dealing	with	it	gracefully.	I’m	amazed	at	how	many
organizations	put	processes	and	controls	in	place	to	try	to	stop	failure	from
occurring	but	put	little	to	no	thought	into	actually	making	it	easier	to	recover
from	failure	in	the	first	place.	Understanding	the	things	that	are	likely	to	fail	is
key	to	improving	the	
robustness
	of	our	system.
Baking	in	the	assumption	that	everything	can	and	will	fail	leads	you	to	think
differently	about	how	you	solve	problems.	Remember	the	story	of	the	Google
servers	we	discussed	in	
Chapter	10
?	The	Google	systems	were	built	in	such	a
way	that	if	a	machine	failed,	it	would	not	lead	to	interruption	of	service—
improving	the	
robustness
	of	the	system	as	a	whole.	Google	goes	further	in
attempting	to	improve	the	robustness	of	its	servers	in	other	ways—it	has
--- PAGE 487 ---
discussed	how	each	server	contains	its	own	local	power	supply	to	ensure	it	can
keep	operating	if	the	data	center	has	an	outage.
	As	you’ll	recall	from
Chapter	10
,	the	hard	drives	in	these	servers	were	attached	with	Velcro	rather	than
screws	to	make	it	easy	to	replace	drives—helping	Google	get	the	machine	up
and	running	quickly	when	a	drive	failed,	and	in	turn	helping	that	component	of
the	system	
rebound
	more	effectively.
So	let	me	repeat:	at	scale,	even	if	you	buy	the	best	kit,	the	most	expensive
hardware,	you	cannot	avoid	the	fact	that	things	can	and	will	fail.	Therefore,	you
need	to	assume	failure	can	happen.	If	you	build	this	thinking	into	everything	you
do	and	plan	for	failure,	you	can	make	informed	trade-offs.	If	you	know	your
system	can	handle	the	fact	that	a	server	can	and	will	fail,	there	may	be
diminishing	returns	from	spending	more	and	more	money	on	individual
machines.	Instead,	having	a	larger	number	of	cheaper	machines	(perhaps	using
cheaper	components	and	some	Velcro!)	like	Google	did	may	make	a	lot	more
sense.
How	Much	Is	Too	Much?
We
	touched	on	the	topic	of	cross-functional	requirements	in	
Chapter	9
.
Understanding	cross-functional	requirements	is	all	about	considering	aspects	like
durability	of	data,	availability	of	services,	throughput,	and	acceptable	latency	of
operations.	Many	of	the	techniques	covered	in	this	chapter	talk	about	approaches
to	implement	these	requirements,	but	only	you	know	exactly	what	the
requirements	themselves	might	be.	So	keep	your	own	requirements	in	mind	as
you	read	on.
Having	an	autoscaling	system	capable	of	reacting	to	increased	load	or	the	failure
of	individual	nodes	might	be	fantastic,	but	it	could	be	overkill	for	a	reporting
system	that	needs	to	run	only	twice	a	month,	where	being	down	for	a	day	or	two
isn’t	that	big	of	a	deal.	Likewise,	figuring	out	how	to	do	zero-downtime
deployments	to	eliminate	interruption	of	service	might	make	sense	for	your
online	ecommerce	system,	but	for	your	corporate	intranet	knowledge	base,	it’s
probably	a	step	too	far.
How	much	failure	you	can	tolerate	or	how	fast	your	system	needs	to	be	is	driven
by	the	users	of	your	system.	That	information	in	turn	helps	you	understand
3
--- PAGE 488 ---
which	techniques	will	make	the	most	sense	for	you.	That	said,	your	users	won’t
always	be	able	to	articulate	what	their	exact	requirements	are.	So	you	need	to
ask	questions	to	help	extract	the	right	information	and	help	them	understand	the
relative	costs	of	providing	different	levels	of	service.
As	I	mentioned	previously,	these	cross-functional	requirements	can	vary	from
service	to	service,	but	I	would	suggest	defining	some	general	cross-functionals
and	then	overriding	them	for	particular	use	cases.	When	it	comes	to	considering
if	and	how	to	scale	out	your	system	to	better	handle	load	or	failure,	start	by
trying	to	understand	the	following	requirements:
Response	time/latency
How
	long	should	various	operations	take?	It	can	be	useful	to	measure	this
with	different	numbers	of	users	to	understand	how	increasing	load	will
impact	the	response	time.	Given	the	nature	of	networks,	you’ll	always	have
outliers,	so	setting	targets	for	a	given	percentile	of	the	responses	monitored
can	be	useful.	The	target	should	also	include	the	number	of	concurrent
connections/users	you	will	expect	your	software	to	handle.	So	you	might	say,
“We	expect	the	website	to	have	a	90th-percentile	response	time	of	2	seconds
when	handling	200	concurrent	connections	per	second.”
Availability
Can
	you	expect	a	service	to	be	down?	Is	this	considered	a	24/7	service?
Some	people	like	to	look	at	periods	of	acceptable	downtime	when	measuring
availability,	but	how	useful	is	this	to	someone	calling	your	service?	Either	I
should	be	able	to	rely	on	your	service	responding	or	I	shouldn’t.	Measuring
periods	of	downtime	is	really	more	useful	from	a	historical	reporting	angle.
Durability	of	data
How
	much	data	loss	is	acceptable?	How	long	should	data	be	kept	for?	This	is
highly	likely	to	change	on	a	case-by-case	basis.	For	example,	you	might
choose	to	keep	user	session	logs	for	a	year	or	less	to	save	space,	but	your
financial	transaction	records	might	need	to	be	kept	for	many	years.
Taking
	these	ideas	and	articulating	them	as	service-level	objectives	(SLOs),
which	we	covered	in	
Chapter	10
,	can	be	a	good	way	to	enshrine	these
--- PAGE 489 ---
requirements	as	a	core	part	of	your	software	delivery	process.
Degrading	Functionality
An
	essential	part	of	building	a	resilient	system,	especially	when	your
functionality	is	spread	over	a	number	of	different	microservices	that	may	be	up
or	down,	is	the	ability	to	safely	degrade	functionality.	Let’s	imagine	a	standard
web	page	on	our	ecommerce	site.	To	pull	together	the	various	parts	of	that
website,	we	might	need	several	microservices	to	play	a	part.	One	microservice
might	display	the	details	about	the	item	being	offered	for	sale.	Another	might
show	the	price	and	stock	level.	And	we’ll	probably	be	showing	shopping	cart
contents	too,	which	may	be	yet	another	microservice.	If	one	of	those	services
goes	down,	and	that	results	in	the	whole	web	page	being	unavailable,	then	we
have	arguably	made	a	system	that	is	less	resilient	than	one	that	requires	only	one
service	to	be	available.
What	we	need	to	do	is	understand	the	impact	of	each	outage	and	work	out	how
to	properly	degrade	functionality.	From	a	business	point	of	view,	we	would	want
our	order-taking	workflow	to	be	as	robust	as	possible,	and	we	might	be	happy	to
accept	some	degradation	of	functionality	to	ensure	this	still	works.	If	the	stock
levels	are	unavailable,	we	might	make	the	decision	to	still	go	ahead	with	the	sale
and	work	out	the	details	later.	If	the	shopping	cart	microservice	is	unavailable,
we’re	probably	in	a	lot	of	trouble,	but	we	could	still	show	the	web	page	with	the
listing.	Perhaps	we	just	hide	the	shopping	cart	or	replace	it	with	an	icon	saying
“Be	Back	Soon!”
With	a	single-process	monolithic	application,	we	don’t	have	many	decisions	to
make.	System	health	is,	to	an	extent,	binary	in	this	context—the	process	is	either
up	or	down.	But	with	a	microservice	architecture,	we	need	to	consider	a	much
more	nuanced	situation.	The	right	thing	to	do	in	any	situation	is	often	not	a
technical	decision.	We	might	know	what	is	technically	possible	when	the
shopping	cart	is	down,	but	unless	we	understand	the	business	context	we	won’t
understand	what	action	we	should	be	taking.	For	example,	perhaps	we	close	the
entire	site,	still	allow	people	to	browse	the	catalog	of	items,	or	replace	the	part	of
the	UI	containing	the	cart	control	with	a	phone	number	for	placing	an	order.	But
for	every	customer-facing	interface	that	uses	multiple	microservices,	or	every
--- PAGE 490 ---
microservice	that	depends	on	multiple	downstream	collaborators,	you	need	to
ask	yourself,	“What	happens	if	this	is	down?”	and	know	what	to	do.
By	thinking	about	the	criticality	of	each	of	our	capabilities	in	terms	of	our	cross-
functional	requirements,	we’ll	be	much	better	positioned	to	know	what	we	can
do.	Now	let’s	consider	some	things	we	can	do	from	a	technical	point	of	view	to
make	sure	that	when	failure	occurs,	we	can	handle	it	gracefully.
Stability	Patterns
There
	are	a	few	patterns	we	can	make	use	of	to	ensure	that	if	something	does	go
wrong,	it	doesn’t	cause	nasty	ripple-out	effects.	It	is	essential	you	understand
these	ideas,	and	you	should	strongly	consider	making	use	of	them	in	your	system
to	ensure	that	one	bad	citizen	doesn’t	bring	the	whole	world	crashing	down
around	your	ears.	In	a	moment,	we’ll	take	a	look	at	a	few	key	safety	measures
you	should	consider,	but	before	we	do,	
I’d
	like	to	share	a	brief	story	to	outline
the	sort	of	thing	that	can	go	wrong.
Many	years	ago,	I	was	a	technical	lead	on	a	project	for	AdvertCorp.	AdvertCorp
(the	company	name	and	details	are	changed	to	protect	the	innocent!)	provided
online	classified	ads	through	a	very	popular	website.	The	website	itself	handled
fairly	high	volumes	and	generated	a	good	deal	of	income	for	the	business.	The
project	I	was	working	on	was	tasked	with	consolidating	a	number	of	existing
services	that	were	used	to	deliver	similar	functionality	for	different	types	of
advertisements.	Existing	functionality	for	the	different	types	of	ads	was	slowly
being	migrated	into	the	new	system	we	were	building,	with	a	number	of	different
types	of	ads	still	served	up	from	older	services.	To	make	this	transition
transparent	to	the	end	customer,	we	intercepted	all	calls	to	the	different	types	of
ads	in	our	new	system,	diverting	them	to	the	old	systems	where	required,	as
outlined	in	
Figure	12-1
.	This
	is	actually	an	example	of	a	
strangler	fig	pattern
,
which	we	discussed	briefly	in	
“Useful	Decompositional	Patterns”
.
--- PAGE 491 ---
Figure	12-1.	
A	strangler	fig	pattern	being	used	to	direct	calls	to	older	legacy	systems
We	had	just	moved	over	the	highest-volume	and	biggest-earning	product	to	the
new	system,	but	much	of	the	rest	of	the	ads	were	still	being	served	by	a	number
of	older	applications.	In	terms	of	both	the	number	of	searches	and	the	money
made	by	these	applications,	there	was	a	very	long	tail—many	of	these	older
applications	received	small	amounts	of	traffic	and	generated	small	amounts	of
revenue.	The	new	system	had	been	live	for	a	while	and	was	behaving	very	well,
handling	a	not	insignificant	load.	At	that	time	we	must	have	been	handling
around	6,000–7,000	requests	per	second	during	peak,	and	although	most	of	that
was	very	heavily	cached	by	reverse	proxies	sitting	in	front	of	our	application
servers,	the	searches	for	products	(the	most	important	aspect	of	the	site)	were
mostly	uncached	and	required	a	full	server	round	trip.
One	morning,	just	before	we	hit	our	daily	lunchtime	peak,	the	system	started
behaving	slowly,	and	then	it	started	failing.	We	had	some	level	of	monitoring	on
our	new	core	application,	enough	to	tell	us	that	each	of	our	application	nodes
was	hitting	a	100%	CPU	spike,	well	above	the	normal	levels	even	at	peak.	In	a
short	period	of	time,	the	entire	site	went	down.
We	managed	to	track	down	the	culprit	and	bring	the	site	back	up.	It	turned	out	to
be	one	of	the	downstream	ad	systems,	which	for	the	sake	of	this	anonymous	case
study	we’ll	say	was	responsible	for	turnip-related	ads.	The	turnip	ad	service,	one
--- PAGE 492 ---
of	the	oldest	and	least	actively	maintained	services,	had	started	responding	very
slowly.	Responding	very	slowly	is	one	of	the	worst	failure	modes	you	can
experience.	If	a	system	is	just	not	there,	you	find	out	pretty	quickly.	When	it’s
just	
slow
,	you	end	up	waiting	around	for	a	while	before	giving	up—that	process
of	waiting	around	can	slow	the	entire	system	down,	cause	resource	contention,
and,	as	happened	in	our	case,	result	in	a	cascading	failure.	But	whatever	the
cause	of	the	failure,	we	had	created	a	system	that	was	vulnerable	to	a
downstream	issue	cascading	to	cause	a	system-wide	failure.	A	downstream
service,	over	which	we	had	little	control,	was	able	to	take	down	our	whole
system.
While	one	team	looked	at	the	problems	with	the	turnip	system,	the	rest	of	us
started	looking	at	what	had	gone	wrong	in	our	application.	We	found	a	few
problems,	which	are	outlined	in	
Figure	12-2
.	We	were	using	an	HTTP
connection	pool	to	handle	our	downstream	connections.	The	threads	in	the	pool
itself	had	time-outs	configured	for	how	long	they	would	wait	when	making	the
downstream	HTTP	call,	which	is	good.	The	problem	was	that	the	workers	were
all	taking	a	while	to	time	out	due	to	the	slow	downstream	service.	While	they
were	waiting,	more	requests	went	to	the	pool	asking	for	worker	threads.	With	no
workers	available,	these	requests	themselves	hung.	It	turned	out	the	connection
pool	library	we	were	using	did	have	a	time-out	for	waiting	for	workers,	but	this
was	
disabled	by	default
!	This	led	to	a	huge	buildup	of	blocked	threads.	Our
application	normally	had	40	concurrent	connections	at	any	given	time.	In	the
space	of	five	minutes,	this	situation	caused	us	to	peak	at	around	800	connections,
bringing	the	system	down.
--- PAGE 493 ---
Figure	12-2.	
An	outline	of	the	issues	that	caused	the	outage
What	was	worse	was	that	the	downstream	service	we	were	talking	to	represented
functionality	that	less	than	5%	of	our	customer	base	used,	and	it	generated	even
less	revenue	than	that.	When	you	get	down	to	it,	we	discovered	the	hard	way	that
systems	that	just	act	slow	are	
much
	harder	to	deal	with	than	systems	that	just	fail
fast.	In	a	distributed	system,	latency	kills.
Even	if	
we’d
	had	the	time-outs	on	the	pool	set	correctly,	we	were	also	sharing	a
single	HTTP	connection	pool	for	all	outbound	requests.	This	meant	that	one
slow	downstream	service	could	exhaust	the	number	of	available	workers	all	by
itself,	even	if	everything	else	was	healthy.	Lastly,	it	was	clear	due	to	the	frequent
time-outs	and	errors	that	the	downstream	service	in	question	wasn’t	healthy,	but
despite	this	we	kept	sending	traffic	its	way.	In	our	situation,	this	meant	we	were
actually	making	a	bad	situation	worse,	as	the	downstream	service	had	no	chance
to	recover.	We	ended	up	implementing	three	fixes	to	avoid	this	happening	again:
getting
	our	
time-outs
	right,	implementing	
bulkheads
	to	separate	out	different
connection	pools,	and	implementing	a	
circuit	breaker
	to	avoid	sending	calls	to
an	unhealthy	system	in	the	first	place.
Time-Outs
Time-outs
	are	easy	to	overlook,	but	in	a	distributed	system	they	are	important	to
get	right.	How	long	can	I	wait	before	I	should	give	up	on	a	call	to	a	downstream
service?	If	you	wait	too	long	to	decide	that	a	call	has	failed,	you	can	slow	the
--- PAGE 494 ---
whole	system	down.	Time	out	too	quickly,	and	you’ll	consider	a	call	that	might
have	worked	as	failed.	Have	no	time-outs	at	all,	and	a	downstream	service	being
down	could	hang	your	whole	system.
In	the	case	of	AdvertCorp,	we	had	two	time-out	related	issues.	Firstly,	we	had	a
missing	time-out	on	the	HTTP	request	pool,	meaning	that	when	asking	for	a
worker	to	make	a	downstream	HTTP	request,	the	request	thread	would	block
forever	until	a	worker	became	available.	Secondly,	when	we	finally	had	an
HTTP	worker	available	to	make	a	request	to	the	turnip	ad	system,	we	were
waiting	way	too	long	before	giving	up	on	the	call.	So	as	
Figure	12-3
	shows,	we
needed	to	add	one	new	time-out	and	change	an	existing	one.
Figure	12-3.	
Changing	time-outs	on	AdvertCorp	system
The	time-outs	for	the	downstream	HTTP	requests	had	been	set	to	30	seconds—
so	we	would	wait	30	seconds	for	a	response	from	the	turnip	system	before	giving
up.	The	issue	is	that	in	the	wider	context	that	this	call	was	being	made,	waiting
that	long	made	no	sense.	The	turnip-related	ads	were	being	requested	as	a	result
of	one	of	our	users	looking	at	our	website	using	a	browser.	Even	back	when	this
happened,	no	one	waited	30	seconds	for	a	page	to	load.	Think	about	what
--- PAGE 495 ---
happens	if	a	web	page	doesn’t	load	after	5,	10,	or	perhaps	15	seconds.	What	do
you	do?	You	refresh	the	page.	So	we	were	waiting	30	seconds	for	the	turnip	ad
system	to	respond,	but	well	before	that	the	original	request	was	no	longer	valid
as	the	user	had	just	refreshed,	causing	an	additional	inbound	request.	This	in	turn
caused	another	request	to	come	in	for	the	ad	system,	and	so	it	went.
When	looking	at	the	normal	behavior	of	the	turnip	ad	system,	we	could	see	that
we	would	normally	expect	a	response	in	much	less	than	a	second,	so	waiting	for
30	seconds	was	overkill.	Furthermore,	we	had	a	target	to	render	a	page	to	the
user	within	
4–6
	seconds.	Based	on	this,	we	made	the	time-out	much	more
aggressive,	setting	it	to	
1	second
.	We	also	put	a	1	second	time-out	on	waiting	for
an	HTTP	worker	to	be	
available
.	This	meant	that	in	the	worst	case,	we	would
expect	to	wait	around	2	seconds	for	information	from	the	turnip	system.
TIP
Time-outs	are	incredibly	useful.	Put	time-outs	on	all	out-of-process	calls,	and	pick	a	default
time-out	for	everything.	Log	when	time-outs	occur,	look	at	what	happens,	and	change	them
accordingly.	Look	at	“normal”	healthy	response	times	for	your	downstream	services,	and	use
that	to	guide	where	you	set	the	time-out	threshold.
Setting	a	time-out	for	a	single	service	call	might	not	be	enough.	What	happens	if
this	time-out	is	happening	as	part	of	a	wider	set	of	operations	that	you	might
want	to	give	up	on	even	before	the	time-out	occurs?	In	the	case	of	AdvertCorp,
for	example,	there	is	no	point	waiting	for	the	latest	turnip	prices	if	there	is	a
good	chance	the	user	has	already	given	up	asking.	In	such	a	situation,	it	can
make	sense	to	have	a	time-out	for	the	overall	operation	and	to	give	up	if	this
time-out	is	exceeded.	For	that	to	work,	the	current	time	left	for	the	operation
would	need	to	be	passed	downstream.	For	example,	if	the	overall	operation	to
render	a	page	had	to	complete	within	1,000	ms,	and	by	the	time	we	made	the	call
to	the	downstream	turnip	ad	service	300	ms	had	already	passed,	we	would	then
need	to	make	sure	we	waited	no	longer	than	700	ms	for	the	rest	of	the	calls	to
complete.
WARNING
--- PAGE 496 ---
Don’t	just	think	about	the	time-out	for	a	single	service	call;	also	think	about	a	time-out	for	the
overall	operation,	and	abort	the	operation	if	this	overall	time-out	budget	is	exceeded.
Retries
Some
	issues	with	downstream	calls	are	temporary.	Packets	can	get	misplaced,	or
gateways	can	have	an	odd	spike	in	load,	causing	a	time-out.	Often,	retrying	the
call	can	make	a	lot	of	sense.	Coming	back	to	what	we	just	talked	about,	how
often	have	you	refreshed	a	web	page	that	didn’t	load,	only	to	find	the	second
attempt	worked	fine?	That’s	a	retry	in	action.
It	can	be	useful	to	consider	what	sort	of	downstream	call	failures	should	even	be
retried.	If	using	a	protocol	like	HTTP,	for	example,	you	may	get	back	some
useful	information	in	the	response	codes	that	can	help	you	determine	if	a	retry	is
warranted.	If	you	got	back	a	
404 Not Found
,	a	retry	is	unlikely	to	be	a	useful
idea.	On	the	other	hand,	a	
503 Service Unavailable
	or	a	
504 Gateway
Time-out
	could	be	considered	temporary	errors	and	could	justify	a	retry.
You	will	likely	need	to	have	a	delay	before	retrying.	If	the	initial	time-out	or
error	was	caused	by	the	fact	that	the	downstream	microservice	was	under	load,
then	bombarding	it	with	additional	requests	may	well	be	a	bad	idea.
If	you	are	going	to	retry,	you	need	to	take	this	into	account	when	considering
your	time-out	threshold.	If	the	time-out	threshold	for	a	downstream	call	is	set	to
500	ms,	but	you	allow	up	to	three	retries	with	one	second	between	each	retry,
then	you	could	end	up	waiting	for	up	to	3.5	seconds	before	giving	up.	As
mentioned	earlier,	having	a	budget	for	how	long	an	operation	is	allowed	to	take
can	be	a	useful	idea—you	might	not	decide	to	do	the	third	(or	even	second)	retry
if	you’ve	already	exceeded	the	overall	time-out	budget.	On	the	other	hand,	if	this
is	happening	as	part	of	a	non-user-facing	operation,	waiting	longer	to	get
something	done	might	be	totally	acceptable.
Bulkheads
In
	
Release	It!
,
	Michael	Nygard	introduces	the	concept	of	a	
bulkhead
	as	a	way	to
isolate	yourself	from	failure.	In	shipping,	a	bulkhead	is	a	part	of	the	ship	that	can
be	sealed	off	to	protect	the	rest	of	the	ship.	So	if	the	ship	springs	a	leak,	you	can
4
--- PAGE 497 ---
close	the	bulkhead	doors.	You	lose	part	of	the	ship,	but	the	rest	of	it	remains
intact.
In	software	architecture	terms,	there	are	lots	of	different	bulkheads	we	can
consider.	Returning	to	my	own	experience	with	AdvertCorp,	we	actually	missed
the	chance	to	implement	a	bulkhead	with	regard	to	the	downstream	calls.	We
should	have	used	different	connection	pools	for	each	downstream	connection.
That	way,	if	one	connection	pool	got	exhausted,	the	other	connections	wouldn’t
be	impacted,	as	we	see	in	
Figure	12-4
.
Figure	12-4.	
Using	a	connection	pool	per	downstream	service	to	provide	
bulkheads
Separation	of	concerns	can	also	be	a	way	to	implement	bulkheads.	By	teasing
apart	functionality	into	separate	microservices,	we	reduce	the	chance	of	an
outage	in	one	area	affecting	another.
Look	at	all	the	aspects	of	your	system	that	can	go	wrong,	both	inside	your
microservices	and	between	them.	Do	you	have	bulkheads	in	place?	
I’d
	suggest
starting	with	separate	connection	pools	for	each	downstream	connection,	at	the
very	least.	You	may	want	to	go	further,	however,	and	consider	using	circuit
breakers	too,	which	we’ll	look	at	in	a	moment.
In
	many	ways,	bulkheads	are	the	most	important	of	the	patterns	we’ve	looked	at
so	far.	Time-outs	and	circuit	breakers	help	you	free	up	resources	when	they	are
becoming	constrained,	but	bulkheads	can	ensure	they	don’t	become	constrained
--- PAGE 498 ---
in	the	first	place.	They	can	also	give	you	the	ability	to	reject	requests	in	certain
conditions	to	ensure	that	resources	don’t	become	even	more	saturated;	this	is
known	as	
load	shedding
.	Sometimes	rejecting	a	request	is	the	best	way	to	stop
an	important	system	from	becoming	overwhelmed	and	being	a	bottleneck	for
multiple	upstream	services.
Circuit	Breakers
In
	your	own	home,	circuit	breakers	exist	to	protect	your	electrical	devices	from
spikes	in	power.	If	a	spike	occurs,	the	circuit	breaker	gets	blown,	protecting	your
expensive	home	appliances.	You	can	also	manually	disable	a	circuit	breaker	to
cut	the	power	to	part	of	your	home,	allowing	you	to	work	safely	on	the	electrical
system.	In	another	pattern	from	
Release	It!
,	Nygard	shows	how	the	same	idea
can	work	wonders	as	a	protection	mechanism	for	our	software.
We	can	think	of	our	circuit	breakers	as	an	automatic	mechanism	to	seal	a
bulkhead,	not	only	to	protect	the	consumer	from	the	downstream	problem	but
also	to	potentially	protect	the	downstream	service	from	more	calls	that	may	be
having	an	adverse	impact.	Given	the	perils	of	cascading	failure,	
I’d
	recommend
mandating	circuit	breakers	for	all	your	synchronous	downstream	calls.	You	don’t
have	to	write	your	own,	either—in	the	years	since	I	wrote	the	first	edition	of	this
book,	circuit	breaker	implementations	have	become	widely	available.
Coming	back	to	AdvertCorp,	consider	the	problem	we	had	with	the	turnip
system	responding	very	slowly	before	eventually	returning	an	error.	Even	if
we’d
	gotten	the	time-outs	right,	
we’d
	be	waiting	a	long	time	before	we	got	the
error.	And	then	
we’d
	try	it	again	the	next	time	a	request	came	in,	and	wait.	It	was
bad	enough	that	the	downstream	service	was	malfunctioning,	but	it	was	slowing
down	the	entire	system	too.
With	a	circuit	breaker,	after	a	certain	number	of	requests	to	the	downstream
resource	have	failed	(due	either	to	error	or	to	a	time-out),	the	circuit	breaker	is
blown.	All	further	requests	that	go	through	that	circuit	breaker	fail	fast	while	the
breaker	is	in	its	blown	(open)	state,
	as	you	can	see	in	
Figure	12-5
.	After	a
certain	period	of	time,	the	client	sends	a	few	requests	through	to	see	if	the
downstream	service	has	recovered,	and	if	it	gets	enough	healthy	responses	it
resets	the	circuit	breaker.
5
--- PAGE 499 ---
Figure	12-5.	
An	overview	of	circuit	breakers
How	you	implement	a	circuit	breaker	depends	on	what	a	“failed”	request	means,
but	when	I’ve	implemented	them	for	HTTP	connections,	I’ve	commonly	taken
failure	to	mean	either	a	time-out	or	a	subset	of	the	5XX	HTTP	return	codes.	In
this	way,	when	a	downstream	resource	is	timing	out	or	returning	errors,	after	a
certain	threshold	is	reached	we	automatically	stop	sending	traffic	and	start
failing	fast.	And	we	can	automatically	start	again	when	things	are	healthy.
Getting	the	settings	right	can	be	a	little	tricky.	You	don’t	want	to	blow	the	circuit
breaker	too	readily,	nor	do	you	want	to	take	too	long	to	blow	it.	Likewise,	you
really	want	to	make	sure	that	the	downstream	service	is	healthy	again	before
sending	traffic.	As	with	time-outs,	
I’d
	pick	some	sensible	defaults	and	stick	with
them	everywhere,	and	then	change	them	for	specific	cases.
While	the	circuit	breaker	is	blown,	you	have	some	options.	One	is	to	queue	up
the	requests	and	retry	them	later	on.	For	some	use	cases,	this	might	be
appropriate,	especially	if	you’re	carrying	out	some	work	as	part	of	an
asynchronous	job.	If	this	call	is	being	made	as	part	of	a	synchronous	call	chain,
however,	it	is	probably	better	to	fail	fast.	This	could	mean	propagating	an	error
up	the	call	chain,	or	a	more	subtle	degrading	of	functionality.
In	the	case	of	AdvertCorp,	we	wrapped	downstream	calls	to	the	legacy	systems
--- PAGE 500 ---
with	circuit	breakers,	as	
Figure	12-6
	shows.	When	these	circuit	breakers	blew,
we	programmatically	updated	the	website	to	show	that	we	couldn’t	currently
show	ads	for,	say,	turnips.	We	kept	the	rest	of	the	website	working	and	clearly
communicated	to	the	customers	that	there	was	an	issue	restricted	to	one	part	of
our	product,	all	in	a	fully	automated	way.
Figure	12-6.	
Adding	circuit	breakers	to	AdvertCorp
We	were	able	to	scope	our	circuit	breakers	so	that	we	had	one	for	each	of	the
downstream	legacy	systems—this	lined	up	well	with	the	fact	that	we	had
decided	to	have	different	request	worker	pools	for	each	downstream	service.
If	we	have	this	mechanism	in	place	(as	with	the	circuit	breakers	in	our	home),
we	could	use	them	manually	to	make	it	safer	to	do	our	work.	For	example,	if	we
wanted	to	take	a	microservice	down	as	part	of	routine	maintenance,	we	could
manually	open	all	the	circuit	breakers	of	the	upstream	consumers	so	they	fail	fast
while	the	microservice	is	offline.	Once	it’s	back,	we	can	close	the	circuit
breakers,	and	everything	should	go	back	to	normal.	Scripting	the	process	to
manually	open	and	close	a	circuit	breaker	as	part	of	an	automated	deployment
--- PAGE 501 ---
process	could	be	a	sensible	next	step.
Circuit	breakers	help	our	application	fail	fast—and	failing	fast	is	always	better
than	failing	slow.	The	circuit	breakers	allow	us	to	fail	before	wasting	valuable
time	(and	resources)	waiting	for	an	unhealthy	downstream	microservice	to
respond.	Rather	than	waiting	until	we	try	to	use	the	downstream	microservice	to
fail,	we	could	check	the	status	of	our	circuit	breakers	earlier.	If	a	microservice
we	will	rely	on	as	part	of	an	operation	is	currently	unavailable,	we	can	abort	the
operation	before	we	even	start.
Isolation
The
	more	one	microservice	depends	on	another	microservice	being	available,	the
more	the	health	of	one	impacts	the	ability	of	the	other	to	do	its	job.	If	we	can	use
technology	that	allows	a	downstream	server	to	be	offline,	for	example,	through
the	use	of	middleware	or	some	other	type	of	call	buffering	system,	upstream
microservices	are	less	likely	to	be	affected	by	outages,	planned	or	unplanned,	of
downstream	microservices.
There	is	another	benefit	to	increasing	isolation	between	services.	When	services
are	isolated	from	each	other,	much	less	coordination	is	needed	between	service
owners.	The	less	coordination	needed	between	teams,	the	more	autonomy	those
teams	have,	as	they	are	able	to	operate	and	evolve	their	services	more	freely.
Isolation	also	applies	in	terms	of	how	we	move	from	the	logical	to	the	physical.
Consider	two	microservices	that	appear	to	be	entirely	isolated	from	one	another.
They	don’t	communicate	with	each	other	in	any	way.	A	problem	with	one	of
them	shouldn’t	impact	the	other,	right?	But	what	if	both	microservices	are
running	on	the	same	host,	and	one	of	the	microservices	starts	using	up	all	the
CPU,	causing	that	host	to	have	issues?
Consider	another	example.	Two	microservices	each	have	their	own,	logically
isolated	database.	But	both	databases	are	deployed	onto	the	same	database
infrastructure.	A	failure	in	that	database	infrastructure	would	impact	both
microservices.
When	we	consider	how	we	want	to	deploy	our	microservices,	we	also	want	to
strive	to	ensure	a	degree	of	failure	isolation	to	avoid	problems	like	this.	For
example,	ensuring	that	microservices	are	running	on	independent	hosts	with
--- PAGE 502 ---
their	own	ring-fenced	operating	system	and	computing	resources	is	a	sensible
step—this	is	what	we	achieve	when	we	run	microservice	instances	in	their	own
virtual	machine	or	container.	This	kind	of	isolation,	though,	can	have	a	cost.
We	can	isolate	our	microservices	from	each	other	more	effectively	by	running
them	on	different	machines.	This	means	we	need	more	infrastructure,	and
tooling	to	manage	that	infrastructure.	This	has	a	direct	cost	and	can	also	add	to
the	complexity	of	our	system	exposing	new	avenues	of	potential	failure.	Each
microservice	could	have	its	own	totally	dedicated	database	infrastructure,	but
that	is	more	infrastructure	to	manage.	We	could	use	middleware	to	provide
temporal	decoupling	between	two	microservices,	but	now	we	have	a	broker	to
worry	about.
Isolation,	like	so	many	of	the	other	techniques	we	have	looked	at,	can	help
improve	the	robustness	of	our	applications,	but	it’s	rare	that	it	does	so	for	free.
Deciding	on	the	acceptable	trade-offs	around	isolation	versus	cost	and	increased
complexity,	like	so	many	other	things,	can	be	vital.
Redundancy
Having
	more	of	something	can	be	a	great	way	to	improve	the	robustness	of	a
component.	Having	more	than	one	person	who	knows	how	the	production
database	works	seems	sensible,	in	case	someone	leaves	the	company	or	is	away
on	leave.	Having	more	than	one	microservice	instance	makes	sense	as	it	allows
you	to	tolerate	the	failure	of	one	of	those	instances	and	still	have	a	chance	of
delivering	the	required	
functionality
.
Working	out	how	much	redundancy	you	need,	and	where,	will	depend	on	how
well	you	understand	potential	failure	modes	of	each	component,	the	impact	of
that	functionality	being	unavailable,	and	the	cost	of	adding	the	redundancy.
On	AWS,	for	example,	you	do	not	get	an
	SLA	for	the	uptime	of	a	single	EC2
(virtual	machine)	instance.	You	have	to	work	on	the	assumption	that	it	can	and
will	die	on	you.	So	it	makes	sense	to	have	more	than	one.	But	going	further,	EC2
instances	are	deployed	into	availability	zones	(virtual	data	centers),	and	you	also
have	no	guarantees	regarding	the	availability	of	a	single	availability	zone,
meaning	you’d	want	that	second	instance	to	be	on	a	
different
	availability	zone	to
spread	the	risk.
--- PAGE 503 ---
Having	more	copies	of	something	can	help	when	it	comes	to	implementing
redundancy,	but	it	can	also	be	beneficial	when	it	comes	to	scaling	our
applications	to	handle	increased	load.	In	the	next	chapter	we’ll	look	at	examples
of	system	scaling,	and	see	how	scaling	for	redundancy	or	scaling	for	load	can
differ.
Middleware
In
	
“Message	Brokers”
,	we	looked	at	the	role	of	middleware	in	the	form	of
message	brokers	to	help	with	implementing	both	request-response	and	event-
based	interactions.	One	of	the	useful	properties	of	most	message	brokers	is	their
ability	to	provide	guaranteed	delivery.	You	send	a	message	to	a	downstream
party,	and	the	broker	guarantees	to	deliver	it,	with	some	caveats	that	we	explored
earlier.	Internally,	to	provide	this	guarantee,	the	message	broker	software	will
have	to	implement	things	like	retries	and	time-outs	on	your	behalf—the	same
sorts	of	operations	are	being	carried	out	as	you	would	have	to	do	yourself,	but
they	are	being	done	in	software	written	by	experts	with	a	deep	focus	on	this	sort
of	thing.	Having	smart	people	do	work	for	you	is	often	a	good	idea.
Now,	in	the	case	of	our	specific	example	with	AdvertCorp,	using	middleware	to
manage	request-response	communication	with	the	downstream	turnip	system
might	not	actually	have	helped	much.	We	would	still	not	be	getting	responses
back	to	our	customers.	The	one	potential	benefit	would	be	that	we’d	be	relieving
resource	contention	on	our	own	system,	but	this	would	just	shift	to	an	increasing
number	of	pending	requests	being	held	in	the	broker.	Worse	still,	many	of	these
requests	asking	for	the	latest	turnip	prices	might	relate	to	user	requests	that	are
no	longer	valid.
An	alternative	could	be	to	instead	invert	the	interaction	and	use	middleware	to
have	the	turnip	system	broadcast	the	last	turnip	ads,	and	we	could	then	consume
them.	But	if	the	downstream	turnip	system	had	a	problem,	we	still	wouldn’t	be
able	to	help	the	customer	looking	for	the	best	turnip	prices.
So	using	middleware	like	message	brokers	to	help	offload	some	robustness
concerns	can	be	useful,	but	not	in	every	situation.
Idempotency
--- PAGE 504 ---
In
	
idempotent
	operations,	the	outcome	doesn’t	change	after	the	first	application,
even	if	the	operation	is	subsequently	applied	multiple	times.	If	operations	are
idempotent,	we	can	repeat	the	call	multiple	times	without	adverse	impact.	This	is
very	useful	when	we	want	to	replay	messages	that	we	aren’t	sure	have	been
processed,	a	common	way	of	recovering	from	error.
Let’s	consider	a	simple	call	to	add	some	points	as	a	result	of	one	of	our
customers	placing	an	order.	We	might	make	a	call	with	the	sort	of	payload
shown	in	
Example	12-1
.
Example	12-1.	
Crediting	points	to	an	account
<credit>
  
<amount>
100
</amount>
  
<forAccount>
1234
</account>
</credit>
If	this	call	is	received	multiple	times,	we	would	add	100	points	multiple	times.
As	it	stands,	therefore,	this	call	is	not	idempotent.	With	a	bit	more	information,
though,	we	allow	the	points	bank	to	make	this	call	idempotent,	as	shown	in
Example	12-2
.
Example	12-2.	
Adding	more	information	to	the	points	credit	to	make	it
idempotent
<credit>
  
<amount>
100
</amount>
  
<forAccount>
1234
</account>
  
<reason>
    
<forPurchase>
4567
</forPurchase>
  
</reason>
</credit>
We	know	that	this	credit	relates	to	a	specific	order,	
4567
.	Assuming	that	we
could	receive	only	one	credit	for	a	given	order,	we	could	apply	this	credit	again
without	increasing	the	overall	number	of	points.
This	mechanism	works	just	as	well	with	event-based	collaboration	and	can	be
especially	useful	if	you	have	multiple	instances	of	the	same	type	of	service
subscribing	to	events.	Even	if	we	store	which	events	have	been	processed,	with
some	forms	of	asynchronous	message	delivery	there	may	be	small	windows	in
which	two	workers	can	see	the	same	message.	By	processing	the	events	in	an
idempotent	manner,	we	ensure	this	won’t	cause	us	any	issues.
--- PAGE 505 ---
Some	people	get	quite	caught	up	with	this	concept	and	assume	it	means	that
subsequent	calls	with	the	same	parameters	can’t	have	
any
	impact,	which	then
leaves	us	in	an	interesting	position.	We	really	would	still	like	to	record	the	fact
that	a	call	was	received	in	our	logs,	for	example.	We	want	to	record	the	response
time	of	the	call	and	collect	this	data	for	monitoring.	The	key	point	here	is	that	it
is	the	underlying	business	operation	that	we	are	considering	idempotent,	not	the
entire	state	of	the	system.
Some	of	the	HTTP	verbs,	such	as	GET	and	PUT,	are	defined	in	the	HTTP
specification	to	be	idempotent,	but	for	that	to	be	the	case,	they	rely	on	your
service	handling	these	calls	in	an	idempotent	manner.	If	you	start	making	these
verbs	nonidempotent,	but	callers	think	they	can	safely	execute	them	repeatedly,
you	may	get	yourself	into	a	mess.	Remember,	just	because	you’re	using	HTTP	as
an	underlying	protocol	doesn’t	mean	you	get	everything	for	free!
Spreading	Your	Risk
One
	way	to	scale	for	resilience	is	to	ensure	that	you	don’t	put	all	your	eggs	in
one	basket.	A	simplistic	example	of	this	is	making	sure	that	you	don’t	have
multiple	services	on	one	host,	where	an	outage	would	impact	multiple	services.
But	let’s	consider	what	
host
	means.	In	most	situations	nowadays,	a	“host”	is
actually	a	virtual	concept.	So	what	if	I	have	all	of	my	services	on	different	hosts,
but	all	those	hosts	are	actually	virtual	hosts,	running	on	the	same	physical	box?
If	that	box	goes	down,	I	could	lose	multiple	services.	Some	virtualization
platforms	enable	you	to	ensure	that	your	hosts	are	distributed	across	multiple
different	physical	boxes	to	reduce	the	chance	of	this	happening.
For	internal	virtualization	platforms,	it	is	a	common	practice	to	have	the	virtual
machine’s	root	partition	mapped	to	a	single	SAN	(storage	area	network).	If	that
SAN	goes	down,	it	can	take	down	all	connected	VMs.	SANs	are	big,	expensive,
and	designed	not	to	fail.	That	said,	I	have	had	big,	expensive	SANs	fail	on	me	at
least	twice	in	the	last	10	years,	and	each	time	the	results	were	fairly	serious.
Another	common	form	of	separation	to	reduce	failure	is	to	ensure	that	not	all
your	services	are	running	in	a	single	rack	in	the	data	center,	or	that	your	services
are	distributed	across	more	than	one	data	center.	If	you’re	using	an	underlying
service	provider,	it	is	important	to	know	if	an	SLA	is	offered	and	to	plan
--- PAGE 506 ---
accordingly.	If	you	need	to	ensure	your	services	are	down	for	no	more	than	four
hours	every	quarter,	but	your	hosting	provider	can	only	guarantee	a	maximum
downtime	of	eight	hours	per	quarter,	you	have	to	change	the	SLA	or	else	come
up	with	an	alternative	solution.
AWS,	for
	example,	is	split	into	regions,	which	you	can	think	of	as	distinct
clouds.	Each	region	is	in	turn	split	into	two	or	more	availability	zones,	as	we
discussed	earlier.	These	availability	zones	are	AWS’s	equivalent	of	a	data	center.
It	is	essential	to	have	services	distributed	across	multiple	availability	zones,	as
AWS	does	not	offer	any	guarantees	about	the	availability	of	a	single	node,	or
even	an	entire	availability	zone.	For	its	compute	service,	it	offers	only	a	99.95%
uptime	over	a	given	monthly	period	of	the	region	as	a	whole,	so	you’ll	want	to
distribute	your	workloads	across	multiple	availability	zones	inside	a	single
region.	For	some	people,	this	isn’t	good	enough,	and	they	run	their	services
across	multiple	regions	as	well.
It	should	be	noted,	of	course,	that	because	providers	give	you	an	SLA
“guarantee,”	they	will	tend	to	limit	their	liability!	If	them	missing	their	targets
results	in	you	losing	customers	and	a	large	amount	of	money,	you	might	find
yourself	searching	through	contracts	to	see	if	you	can	claw	anything	back	from
them.	Therefore,	I	would	strongly	suggest	you	understand	the	impact	of	a
supplier	failing	in	its	obligations	to	you,	and	work	out	if	you	need	to	have	a	plan
B	(or	C)	in	your	pocket.	More	than	one	client	I’ve	worked	with	has	had	a
disaster	recovery	hosting	platform	with	a	different	supplier,	for	example,	to
ensure	they	weren’t	too	vulnerable	to	the	mistakes	of	one	company.
CAP	Theorem
We’d
	like
	to	have	it	all,	but	unfortunately	we	know	we	can’t.	And	when	it	comes
to	distributed	systems	like	those	we	build	using	microservice	architectures,	we
even	have	a	mathematical	proof	that	tells	us	we	can’t.	You	may	well	have	heard
about	the	CAP	theorem,	especially	in	discussions	about	the	merits	of	various
different	types	of	data	stores.	At	its	heart	it	tells	us	that	in	a	distributed	system,
we	have	three	things	we	can	trade	off	against	each	other:	
consistency
,
availability
,	and	
partition	tolerance
.	Specifically,	the	theorem	tells	us	that	we	get
to	keep	two	in	a	failure	mode.
--- PAGE 507 ---
Consistency	is	the	system	characteristic	by	which	we	will	get	the	same	answer	if
we	go	to	multiple	nodes.	Availability	means	that	every	request	receives	a
response.	Partition	tolerance	is	the	system’s	ability	to	handle	the	fact	that
communication	between	its	parts	is	sometimes	impossible.
Since	Eric	Brewer	published	his	original	conjecture,	the	idea	has	gained	a
mathematical	proof.	I’m	not	going	to	dive	into	the	math	of	the	proof	itself,	as	not
only	is	this	not	that	sort	of	book,	but	I	can	also	guarantee	that	I	would	get	it
wrong.	Instead,	let’s	use	some	worked	examples	that	will	help	us	understand	that
under	it	all,	the	CAP	theorem	is	a	distillation	of	a	very	logical	set	of	reasoning.
Let’s	imagine	that	our	
Inventory
	microservice	is	deployed	across	two	separate
data	centers,	as	shown	in	
Figure	12-7
.	Backing	our	service	instance	in	each	data
center	is	a	database,	and	these	two	databases	talk	to	each	other	to	try	to
synchronize	data	between	them.	Reads	and	writes	are	done	via	the	local	database
node,	and	replication	is	used	to	synchronize	the	data	between	the	nodes.
--- PAGE 508 ---
Figure	12-7.	
Using	multiprimary	replication	to	share	data	between	two	database	nodes
Now	let’s	think	about	what	happens	when	something	fails.	Imagine	that
something	as	simple	as	the	network	link	between	the	two	data	centers	stops
working.	The	synchronization	at	this	point	fails.	Writes	made	to	the	primary
database	in	DC1	will	not	propagate	to	DC2,	and	vice	versa.	Most	databases	that
support	these	setups	also	support	some	sort	of	queuing	technique	to	ensure	that
we	can	recover	from	this	afterward,	but	what	happens	in	the	meantime?
Sacrificing	Consistency
Let’s
	assume	that	we	don’t	shut	the	
Inventory
	microservice	down	entirely.	
If	I
make	a	change	now	to	the	data	in	DC1,	the	database	in	DC2	doesn’t	see	it.	This
--- PAGE 509 ---
means	any	requests	made	to	our	inventory	node	in	DC2	see	potentially	stale
data.	In	other	words,	our	system	is	still	
available
	in	that	both	nodes	are	able	to
serve	requests,	and	we	have	kept	the	system	running	despite	the	
partition
,	but	we
have	lost	
consistency
;	we	don’t	get	to	keep	all	three	traits.	This	is	often	called	an
AP
	system,	because	of	its	availability	and	partition	tolerance.
During	this	partition,	if	we	keep	accepting	writes,	then	we	accept	the	fact	that	at
some	point	in	the	future	they	have	to	be	resynchronized.	The	longer	the	partition
lasts,	the	more	difficult	this	resynchronization	can	become.
The	reality	is	that	even	if	we	don’t	have	a	network	failure	between	our	database
nodes,	replication	of	data	is	not	instantaneous.	As	touched	on	earlier,	systems
that	are	happy	to	cede	consistency	to	keep	partition	tolerance	and	availability	are
said	to	be	
eventually	consistent
;	that	is,	we	expect	at	some	point	in	the	future	that
all	nodes	will	see	the	updated	data,	but	it	won’t	happen	at	once,	so	we	have	to
live	with	the	possibility	that	users	see	old	data.
Sacrificing	Availability
What
	happens	if	we	need	to	keep	consistency	and	want	to	drop	something	else
instead?	Well,	to	keep	consistency,	each	database	node	needs	to	know	the	copy
of	the	data	it	has	is	the	same	as	the	other	database	node.	Now	in	the	partition,	if
the	database	nodes	can’t	talk	to	each	other,	they	cannot	coordinate	to	ensure
consistency.	We	are	unable	to	guarantee	consistency,	so	our	only	option	is	to
refuse	to	respond	to	the	request.	In	other	words,	we	have	sacrificed	availability.
Our	system	is	consistent	and	partition	tolerant,	or	CP.	In	this	mode	our	service
would	have	to	work	out	how	to	degrade	functionality	until	the	partition	is	healed
and	the	database	nodes	can	be	resynchronized.
Consistency	across	multiple	nodes	is	really	hard.	There	are	few	things	(perhaps
nothing)	harder	in	distributed	systems.	Think	about	it	for	a	moment.	Imagine	I
want	to	read	a	record	from	the	local	database	node.	How	do	I	know	it	is	up	to
date?	I	have	to	go	and	ask	the	other	node.	But	I	also	have	to	ask	that	database
node	to	not	allow	it	to	be	updated	while	the	read	completes;	in	other	words,	I
need	to	initiate	a	transactional	read	across	multiple	database	nodes	to	ensure
consistency.	But	in	general	people	don’t	do	transactional	reads,	do	they?	Because
transactional	reads	are	slow.	They	require	locks.	A	read	can	block	an	entire
system.
--- PAGE 510 ---
As	we’ve	already	discussed,	distributed	systems	have	to	expect	failure.	Consider
our	transactional	read	across	a	set	of	consistent	nodes.	I	ask	a	remote	node	to
lock	a	given	record	while	the	read	is	initiated.	I	complete	the	read	and	ask	the
remote	node	to	release	its	lock,	but	now	I	can’t	talk	to	it.	What	happens	now?
Locks	are	really	hard	to	get	right	even	in	a	single	process	system	and	are
significantly	more	difficult	to	implement	well	in	a	distributed	system.
Remember	when	we	talked	about	distributed	transactions	in	
Chapter	6
?	The	core
reason	they	are	challenging	is	because	of	this	problem	with	ensuring	consistency
across	multiple	nodes.
Getting	multinode	consistency	right	is	so	hard	that	I	would	strongly,	
strongly
suggest	that	if	you	need	it,	don’t	try	to	invent	it	yourself.	Instead,	pick	a	data
store	or	lock	service	that	offers	these	characteristics.	Consul,	for	example,	which
we	discussed	in	
“Dynamic	Service	Registries”
,	implements	a	strongly	consistent
key-value	store	designed	to	share	configuration	between	multiple	nodes.	Along
with	“Friends	don’t	let	friends	write	their	own	crypto”	should	go	“Friends	don’t
let	friends	write	their	own	distributed	consistent	data	store.”	If	you	think	you
need	to	write	your	own	CP	data	store,	read	all	the	papers	on	the	subject	first,	then
get	a	PhD,	and	then	look	forward	to	spending	a	few	years	getting	it	wrong.
Meanwhile,	I’ll	be	using	something	off	the	shelf	that	does	it	for	me,	or	more
likely	trying	
really	hard
	to	build	eventually	consistent	AP	systems	instead.
Sacrificing	Partition	Tolerance?
We
	get	to	pick	two,	right?	So	we’ve	got	our	eventually	consistent	AP	system.	We
have	our	consistent	but	hard-to-build-and-scale	CP	system.	Why	not	a	CA
system?	Well,	how	can	we	sacrifice	partition	tolerance?	If	our	system	has	no
partition	tolerance,	it	can’t	run	over	a	network.	In	other	words,	it	needs	to	be	a
single	process	operating	locally.	CA	systems	don’t	exist	in	distributed	systems.
AP	or	CP?
Which
	is	right,	AP	or	CP?	Well,	the	reality	is	that	
it	depends
.	As	the	people
building	the	system,	we	know	the	trade-off	exists.	We	know	that	AP	systems
scale	more	easily	and	are	simpler	to	build,	and	we	know	that	a	CP	system	will
require	more	work	due	to	the	challenges	in	supporting	distributed	consistency.
--- PAGE 511 ---
But	we	may	not	understand	the	business	impact	of	this	trade-off.	For	our
inventory	system,	if	a	record	is	out	of	date	by	five	minutes,	is	that	OK?	If	the
answer	is	yes,	an	AP	system	might	be	the	answer.	But	what	about	the	balance
held	for	a	customer	in	a	bank?	Can	that	be	out	of	date?	Without	knowing	the
context	in	which	the	operation	is	being	used,	we	can’t	know	the	right	thing	to	do.
Knowing	about	the	CAP	theorem	helps	you	understand	that	this	trade-off	exists
and	what	questions	to	ask.
It’s	Not	All	or	Nothing
Our
	system	as	a	whole	doesn’t	need	to	be	either	AP	or	CP.	Our	catalog	for
MusicCorp	could	be	AP,	as	we	don’t	worry	too	much	about	a	stale	record.	But
we	might	decide	that	our	inventory	service	needs	to	be	CP,	as	we	don’t	want	to
sell	a	customer	something	we	don’t	have	and	then	have	to	apologize	later.
But	individual	services	don’t	even	need	to	be	CP	or	AP.
Let’s	think	about	our	
Points Balance
	microservice,	where	we	store	records	of
how	many	loyalty	points	our	customers	have	built	up.	We	could	decide	that	we
don’t	care	if	the	balance	we	show	for	a	customer	is	stale,	but	that	when	it	comes
to	updating	a	balance	we	need	it	to	be	consistent	to	ensure	that	customers	don’t
use	more	points	than	they	have	available.	Is	this	microservice	CP,	or	AP,	or
both?	Really,	what	we	have	done	is	push	the	trade-offs	around	the	CAP	theorem
down	to	individual	microservice	capabilities.
Another	complexity	is	that	neither	consistency	nor	availability	is	all	or	nothing.
Many	systems	allow	us	a	far	more	nuanced	trade-off.	For	example,	with
Cassandra	I	can	make	different	trade-offs	for	individual	calls.	So	if	I	need	strict
consistency,	I	can	perform	a	read	that	blocks	until	all	replicas	have	responded,
confirming	the	value	is	consistent,	or	until	a	specific	quorum	of	replicas	have
responded,	or	even	just	a	single	node.	Obviously,	if	I	block	waiting	for	all
replicas	to	report	back	and	one	of	them	is	unavailable,	I’ll	be	blocking	for	a	long
time.	On	the	other	hand,	if	I	wanted	my	read	to	respond	as	quickly	as	possible,	I
might	wait	to	hear	back	from	only	a	single	node—in	which	case	there	is	a
possibility	that	this	might	be	an	inconsistent	view	of	my	data.
You’ll	often	see	posts	about	people	“beating”	the	CAP	theorem.	They	haven’t.
What	they	have	done	is	create	a	system	in	which	some	capabilities	are	CP,	and
--- PAGE 512 ---
some	are	AP.	The	mathematical	proof	behind	the	CAP	theorem	holds.
And	the	Real	World
Much
	of	what	we’ve	talked	about	is	the	electronic	world—bits	and	bytes	stored
in	memory.	We	talk	about	consistency	in	an	almost	childlike	fashion;	we	imagine
that	within	the	scope	of	the	system	we	have	created,	we	can	stop	the	world	and
have	it	all	make	sense.	And	yet	so	much	of	what	we	build	is	just	a	reflection	of
the	real	world,	and	we	don’t	get	to	control	that,	do	we?
Let’s	revisit	our	inventory	system.	This	maps	to	real-world,	physical	items.	We
keep	a	count	in	our	system	of	how	many	albums	we	have	in	MusicCorp’s
warehouses.	At	the	start	of	the	day	we	had	100	copies	of	
Give	Blood
	by	the
Brakes.	We	sold	one.	Now	we	have	99	copies.	Easy,	right?	But	what	happens	if
when	the	order	is	being	sent	out,	someone	knocks	a	copy	of	the	album	onto	the
floor	and	it	gets	stepped	on	and	broken?	What	happens	now?	Our	systems	say
there	are	99	copies	on	the	shelf,	but	there	are	actually	only	98.
What	if	we	made	our	inventory	system	AP	instead,	and	we	occasionally	had	to
contact	a	user	later	on	and	tell	him	that	one	of	his	items	is	actually	out	of	stock?
Would	that	be	the	worst	thing	in	the	world?	It	would	certainly	be	much	easier	to
build	and	scale	it	and	ensure	it	is	correct.
We	have	to	recognize	that	no	matter	how	consistent	our	systems	might	be	in	and
of	themselves,	they	cannot	know	everything	that	happens,	especially	when	we’re
keeping	records	of	the	real	world.	This	is	one	of	the	main	reasons	that	AP
systems	end	up	being	the	right	call	in	many	situations.	Aside	from	the
complexity	of	building	CP	systems,	they	can’t	fix	all	our	problems	anyway.
ANTIFRAGILITY
In
	the	first	edition,	I	talked	about	the	concept	of	antifragile,	as	popularized
by	Nassim	Taleb.	This	concept	describes	how	systems	actually	benefit	from
failure	and	disorder	and	was	highlighted	as	being	inspiration	for	how	some
parts	of	Netflix	operated,	specifically	with	respect	to	concepts	like	chaos
engineering.	When	looking	more	broadly	at	the	concept	of	resiliency,
though,	we	realize	that	antifragility	is	just	a	subset	of	the	concept	of
resiliency.	When	we	consider	the	concepts	of	graceful	extensibility	and
--- PAGE 513 ---
sustained	adaptability,	which	we	introduced	earlier,	this	becomes	clear.
I	think	that	when	antifragility	became,	briefly,	a	hyped	concept	in	IT,	it	did
so	against	a	backdrop	of	us	thinking	narrowly	about	resiliency—where	we
thought	only	about	robustness,	and	maybe	about	rebound,	but	ignored	the
rest.	With	the	field	of	resilience	engineering	now	gaining	more	recognition
and	traction,	it	seems	appropriate	to	move	beyond	the	term	
antifragile
,	while
still	ensuring	that	we	highlight	some	of	the	ideas	behind	it	that	are	well	and
truly	part	of	resiliency	as	a	whole.
Chaos	Engineering
Since
	the	first	edition	of	this	book,	another	technique	that	has	gained	more
attention	is	
chaos	engineering
.	Named	for	practices	used	at	Netflix,	it	can	be	a
useful	approach	to	help	improve	your	resiliency—either	in	terms	of	ensuring
your	systems	are	as	
robust
	as	you	think	they	are,	or	else	as	part	of	an	approach
toward	the	
sustained	adaptability
	of	your	system.
Originally	inspired	by	work	that	Netflix	was	doing	internally,	the	term	
chaos
engineering
	struggles	somewhat	due	to	confusing	explanations	of	what	it	means.
For	many,	it	means	“run	a	tool	on	my	software	and	see	what	it	says,”	something
arguably	not	helped	by	the	fact	that	many	of	the	most	vocal	proponents	of	chaos
engineering	are	often	themselves	selling	tools	to	run	on	your	software	to	do,
well,	chaos	engineering.
Getting	a	clear	definition	of	what	chaos	engineering	means	to	its	practitioners	is
difficult.	The	best	definition	(at	least	to	my	mind)	that	I’ve	come	across	is	this:
Chaos	Engineering	is	the	discipline	of	experimenting	on	a	system	in	order	to
build	confidence	in	the	system’s	capability	to	withstand	turbulent	conditions	in
production.
—
Principles	of	Chaos	Engineering
Now	the	word	
system
	here	is	doing	a	lot	of	work.	Some	will	view	this	narrowly
as	the	software	and	hardware	components.	But	in	the	context	of	resiliency
engineering,	it’s	important	that	we	see	the	
system
	as	being	the	entirety	of	the
people,	the	processes,	the	culture,	and	yes,	the	software	and	infrastructure	that	go
--- PAGE 514 ---
into	creating	our	product.	This	means	we	should	view	chaos	engineering	more
broadly	than	just	“let’s	turn	off	some	machines	and	see	what	happens.”
Game	Days
Well
	before	chaos	engineering	had	its	name,	people	would	run	Game	Day
exercises	to	test	people’s	preparedness	for	certain	events.	Planned	in	advance	but
ideally	launched	in	surprise	(for	the	participants),	this	gives	you	the	chance	to
test	your	people	and	processes	in	the	wake	of	a	realistic	but	fictional	situation.
During	my	time	at	Google,	this	was	a	fairly	common	occurrence	for	various
systems,	and	I	certainly	think	that	many	organizations	could	benefit	from	having
these	sorts	of	exercises	regularly.	Google	goes	beyond	simple	tests	to	mimic
server	failure,	and	as	part	of	its	DiRT	(Disaster	Recovery	Test)	exercises	it	has
simulated	large-scale	disasters	such	as	earthquakes.
Game	Days	can	be	used	to	probe	suspected	sources	of	weakness	in	the	system.
In	his	book,	
Learning	Chaos	Engineering
,
	Russ	Miles	shares	the	example	of	a
Game	Day	exercise	he	facilitated	that	had	been	designed	to	examine,	in	part,	the
overreliance	on	a	single	staff	member	named	Bob.	For	the	Game	Day,	Bob	was
sequestered	in	a	room	and	unable	to	help	the	team	during	the	simulated	outage.
Bob	was	observing,	though,	and	ended	up	having	to	step	in	when	the	team,	in	its
attempt	to	fix	issues	with	the	“fake”	system,	ended	up	logging	into	production	by
mistake	and	was	in	the	process	of	destroying	production	data.	One	can	only
assume	that	lots	of	lessons	were	learned	in	the	aftermath	of	that	exercise.
Production	Experiments
The
	scale	at	which	Netflix	operates	is	well	known,	as	is	the	fact	that	Netflix	is
based	entirely	on	the	AWS	infrastructure.	These	two	factors	mean	that	it	has	to
embrace	failure	well.	Netflix	realized	that	planning	for	failure	and	actually
knowing
	your	software	will	handle	that	failure	when	it	occurs	are	two	different
things.	To	that	end,	
Netflix
	actually	
incites
	failure	to	ensure	that	its	systems	are
tolerant	of	failure	by	running	tools	on	its	systems.
The
	most	famous	of	these	tools	is	Chaos	Monkey,	which	during	certain	hours	of
the	day	turns	off	random	machines	in	production.	Knowing	that	this	can	and	will
happen	in	production	means	that	the	developers	who	create	the	systems	really
6
7
--- PAGE 515 ---
have	to	be	prepared	for	it.	Chaos	Monkey	is	just	one	part	of	Netflix’s	Simian
Army	of	failure	bots.	Chaos	Gorilla	is	used	to	take	out	an	entire	availability	zone
(the	AWS	equivalent	of	a	data	center),	whereas	Latency	Monkey	simulates	slow
network	connectivity	between	machines.	For	many,	the	ultimate	test	of	whether
your	system	really	is	robust	might	be	unleashing	your	very	own	Simian	Army	on
your	production	
infrastructure.
From	Robustness	to	Beyond
Applied	in	its	narrowest	form,	chaos	engineering	could	be	a	useful	activity	in
terms	of	improving	the	robustness	of	our	application.	Remember,	robustness	in
the	context	of	resilience	engineering	means	the	extent	to	which	our	system	can
handle	expected	problems.	Netflix	knew	it	couldn’t	rely	on	any	given	virtual
machine	being	available	in	its	production	environment,	so	it	built	Chaos	Monkey
to	ensure	that	its	system	could	survive	this	
expected
	issue.
If
	you	make	use	of	chaos	engineering	tooling	as	part	of	an	approach	to
continually	question	the	resilience	of	your	system,	however,	it	can	have	far
greater	applicability.	Using	tools	in	this	space	to	help	answer	the	“what	if”
questions	you	might	have,	continually	questioning	your	understanding,	can	have
a	much	bigger	impact.	The	
Chaos	Toolkit
	is	an	open	source	project	to	help	you
run	experiments	on	your	system,	and	it	has	proved	very	popular.	
Reliably
,	the
company	founded	by	the	creators	of	the	Chaos	Toolkit,	offers	a	broader	range	of
tools	to	help	with	chaos	engineering	in	general,	although	perhaps	the	best-known
vendor	in	this	space	is	
Gremlin
.
Just	remember,	running	a	chaos	engineering	tool	doesn’t	make	you	resilient.
Blame
When
	things	go	wrong,	there	are	lots	of	ways	we	can	handle	it.	Obviously,	in	the
immediate	aftermath,	our	focus	is	on	getting	things	back	up	and	running,	which
is	sensible.	After	that,	all	too	often,	come	the	recriminations.	There	is	a	default
position	to	look	for	something	or	someone	to	blame.	The	concept	of	“root	cause
analysis”	implies	there	
is
	a	root	cause.	It’s	surprising	how	often	we	want	that
root	cause	to	be	a	human.
--- PAGE 516 ---
A	few	years	ago,	back	when	I	was	working	in	Australia,	Telstra,	the	main	telco
(and	previous	monopoly)	had	a	major	outage	that	impacted	both	voice	and
telephony	services.	This	incident	was	especially	problematic	due	to	the	scope
and	duration	of	the	outage.	Australia	has	many	very	isolated	rural	communities,
and	outages	like	this	tend	to	be	especially	serious.	Almost	immediately	after	the
outage,	Telstra’s	COO	put	out	a	statement	that	made	it	clear	they	knew	exactly
what	had	caused	the	problem:
“We	took	that	node	down,	unfortunately	the	individual	that	was	managing	that
issue	did	not	follow	the	correct	procedure,	and	he	reconnected	the	customers
to	the	malfunctioning	node,	rather	than	transferring	them	to	the	nine	other
redundant	nodes	that	he	should	have	transferred	people	to,”	Ms.	McKenzie
told	reporters	on	Tuesday	afternoon.
“We	apologise	right	across	our	customer	base.	This	is	an	embarrassing
human	error.”
So	firstly,	note	that	this	statement	came	out	hours	after	the	outage.	And	yet
Telstra	had	already	unpacked	what	must	be	a	vastly	complex	system	to	know
exactly	what	was	to	blame—one	person.	Now,	if	it’s	true	that	one	person	making
a	mistake	can	really	bring	an	entire	telco	to	its	knees,	you’d	think	that	would	say
more	about	the	telco	than	the	individual.	In	addition,	Telstra	clearly	signaled	to
its	staff	at	the	time	that	it	was	very	happy	to	point	fingers	and	apportion	blame.
The	problem	with	blaming	people	in	the	aftermath	of	incidents	like	this	is	that
what	starts	as	a	short-term	passing	of	the	buck	ends	up	creating	a	culture	of	fear,
where	people	will	be	unwilling	to	come	forward	to	tell	you	when	things	go
wrong.	As	a	result,	you	will	lose	the	opportunity	to	learn	from	failure,	setting
yourself	up	for	the	same	problems	happening	again.	Creating	an	organization	in
which	people	have	the	safety	to	admit	when	mistakes	are	made	is	essential	in
creating	a	learning	culture,	and	in	turn	can	go	a	long	way	toward	creating	an
organization	that	is	able	to	create	more	robust	software,	quite	aside	from	the
obvious	benefits	of	creating	a	happier	place	to	work	in.
Coming	back	to	Telstra,	with	the	cause	of	the	blame	clearly	established	in	the	in-
depth	investigation	that	was	carried	out	mere	hours	after	the	nationwide	outage,
we’d	clearly	expect	no	subsequent	outages,	right?	Unfortunately,	Telstra	suffered
a	string	of	subsequent	outages.	More	human	error?	Perhaps	Telstra	thought	so—
8
9
--- PAGE 517 ---
in	the	wake	of	the	series	of	incidents,	the	COO	resigned.
For	a	more	informed	take	on	how	to	create	an	organization	where	you	can	get
the	best	out	of	mistakes	and	create	a	nicer	environment	for	your	staff	as	well,
John	Allspaw’s	“Blameless	Post-Mortems	and	a	Just	Culture”	is	a	great
jumping-off	point.
Ultimately,	as	I’ve	already	highlighted	numerous	times	in	this	chapter,	
resiliency
requires	a	questioning	mind—a	drive	to	constantly	examine	the	weaknesses	in
our	system.	This	requires	a	culture	of	learning,	and	often	the	best	learning	can
come	in	the	wake	of	an	incident.	It’s	therefore	vital	that	you	ensure	that	when	the
worst	happens,	you	do	your	best	to	create	an	environment	in	which	you	can
maximize	the	information	you	gather	in	the	aftermath	to	reduce	the	chances	of	it
happening	again.
Summary
As	our	software	becomes	more	vital	to	the	lives	of	our	users,	the	drive	toward
improving	the	resiliency	of	the	software	we	create	increases.	As	we’ve	seen	in
this	chapter,	though,	we	cannot	achieve	resiliency	
just
	by	thinking	about	our
software	and	infrastructure;	we	also	have	to	think	about	our	people,	processes,
and	organizations.	In	this	chapter	we	looked	at	the	four	core	concepts	of
resiliency,	as	described	by	David	Woods:
Robustness
The	ability	to	absorb	expected	perturbation
Rebound
The	ability	to	recover	after	a	traumatic	event
Graceful	extensibility
How	well	we	deal	with	a	situation	that	is	unexpected
Sustained	adaptability
The	ability	to	continually	adapt	to	changing	environments,	stakeholders,	and
demands
10
--- PAGE 518 ---
Looking
	more	narrowly	at	microservices,	they	give	us	a	host	of	ways	in	which
we	can	improve	the	
robustness
	of	our	systems.	But	this	improved	robustness	is
not	free—you	still	have	to	decide	which	options	to	use.	Key	stability	patterns
like	circuit	breakers,	time-outs,	redundancy,	isolation,	idempotency,	and	the	like
are	all	tools	at	your	disposal,	but	you	have	to	decide	when	and	where	to	use
them.	Beyond	these	narrow	concepts,	though,	we	also	need	to	be	constantly	on
the	lookout	for	what	we	don’t	know.
You	also	have	to	work	out	how	much	resiliency	you	want—and	this	is	nearly
always	something	defined	by	the	users	and	business	owners	of	your	system.	As	a
technologist,	you	can	be	in	charge	of	how	things	are	done,	but	knowing	what
resiliency	is	needed	will	require	good,	frequent	close	communication	with	users
and	product	owners.
Let’s
	come	back	to	David	Woods’s	quote	from	earlier	in	the	chapter,	which	we
used	when	discussing	sustained	adaptability:
No	matter	how	good	we	have	done	before,	no	matter	how	successful	we’ve
been,	the	future	could	be	different,	and	we	might	not	be	well	adapted.	We
might	be	precarious	and	fragile	in	the	face	of	that	new	future.
Asking	the	same	questions	over	and	over	again	doesn’t	help	you	understand	if
you	are	prepared	for	the	uncertain	future.	You	don’t	know	what	you	don’t	know
—adopting	an	approach	in	which	you	are	constantly	learning,	constantly
questioning,	is	key	to	building	resiliency.
One	type	of	stability	pattern	we	looked	at,	redundancy,	can	be	very	effective.
This	idea	segues	quite	nicely	into	our	next	chapter,	where	we’ll	look	at	different
ways	to	scale	our	microservices,	which	as	well	as	helping	us	handle	more	load
can	also	be	an	effective	way	to	help	us	implement	redundancy	in	our	systems,
and	therefore	also	improve	the	robustness	of	our	systems.
1
	David	D.	Woods,	“Four	Concepts	for	Resilience	and	the	Implications	for	the	Future	of	Resilience
Engineering,”	
Reliability	Engineering	&	System	Safety
	141	(September	2015):	5–9,
doi.org/10.1016/j.ress.2015.03.018.
2
	Jason	Bloomberg,	“Innovation:	The	Flip	Side	of	Resilience,”	
Forbes
,	September	23,	2014,
https://oreil.ly/avSmU
.
3
	See	
“Google	Uncloaks	Once-Secret	Server”
	by	Stephen	Shankland	for	more	information	on	this,
including	an	interesting	overview	of	why	Google	thinks	this	approach	can	be	superior	to	traditional
--- PAGE 519 ---
UPS	systems.
4
	Michael	T.	Nygard,	
Release	It!	Design	and	Deploy	Production-Ready	Software
,	2nd	ed.	(Raleigh:
Pragmatic	Bookshelf,	2018).
5
	The	terminology	of	an	“open”	breaker,	meaning	requests	can’t	flow,	can	be	confusing,	but	it	comes
from	electrical	circuits.	When	the	breaker	is	“open,”	the	circuit	is	broken	and	current	cannot	flow.
Closing	the	breaker	allows	the	circuit	to	be	completed	and	current	to	flow	once	again.
6
	Kripa	Krishnan,	“Weathering	the	Unexpected,”	acmqueue	10,	no.	9	(2012),	
https://oreil.ly/BCSQ7
.
7
	Russ	Miles,	
Learning	Chaos	Engineering
	(Sebastopol:	O’Reilly,	2019).
8
	Kate	Aubusson	and	Tim	Biggs,	“Major	Telstra	Mobile	Outage	Hits	Nationwide,	with	Calls	and	Data
Affected,”	
Sydney	Morning	Herald
,	February	9,	2016,	
https://oreil.ly/4cBcy
.
9
	I	wrote	more	about	the	Telstra	incident	at	the	time—“Telstra,	Human	Error	and	Blame	Culture,”
https://oreil.ly/OXgUQ
.	When	I	wrote	that	blog	post,	I	neglected	to	realize	that	the	company	I	worked
for	had	Telstra	as	a	client;	my	then-employer	actually	handled	the	situation	extremely	well,	even
though	it	did	make	for	an	uncomfortable	few	hours	when	some	of	my	comments	got	picked	up	by	the
national	press.
10
	John	Allspaw,	“Blameless	Post-Mortems	and	a	Just	Culture,”	
Code	as	Craft	(blog),	Etsy,	May	22,
2012,	
https://oreil.ly/7LzmL
.
--- PAGE 520 ---
Chapter	13.	
Scaling
“You’re	gonna	need	a	bigger	boat.”
—
Chief	Brody,	
Jaws
When	we	scale	our	systems,	we	do	so	for	one	of	two	reasons.	Firstly,	it	allows	us
to	improve	the	performance	of	our	system,	perhaps	by	allowing	us	to	handle
more	load	or	by	improving	latency.	Secondly,	we	can	scale	our	system	to
improve	its	robustness.	In	this	chapter,	we’ll	look	at	a	model	to	describe	the
different	types	of	scaling,	and	then	we’ll	look	in	detail	at	how	each	type	of
scaling	can	be	implemented	using	a	microservice	architecture.	At	the	end	of	this
chapter,	you	should	have	an	array	of	techniques	to	handle	the	scaling	issues	that
may	come	your	way.
To	start	with,	though,	let’s	look	at	the	different	types	of	scaling	you	might	want
to	apply.
The	Four	Axes	of	Scaling
There
	isn’t	one	right	way	to	scale	a	system,	as	the	technique	used	will	depend	on
the	type	of	constraint	you	might	have.	We	have	a	number	of	different	types	of
scaling	we	can	bring	to	bear	to	help	with	performance,	robustness,	or	perhaps
both.	A	model	I’ve	often	used	to	describe	the	different	types	of	scaling	is	the
Scale	Cube	from	
The	Art	of	Scalability
,
	which	breaks	scaling	down	into	three
categories	that	in	the	context	of	computer	systems	cover	functional
decomposition,	horizontal	duplication,	and	data	partitioning.	The	value	of	this
model	is	that	it	helps	you	understand	that	you	can	scale	a	system	along	one,	two,
or	all	three	of	these	axes,	depending	on	your	needs.	However,	especially	in	a
world	of	virtualized	infrastructure,	I’ve	always	felt	that	this	model	lacked	a
fourth	axis	of	vertical	scaling,	though	that	would	have	the	somewhat	unfortunate
property	of	making	it	no	longer	a	cube.	Nonetheless,	I	think	it’s	a	useful	set	of
mechanisms	for	us	to	determine	how	best	to	scale	our	microservice	architectures.
Before	we	look	at	these	types	of	scaling	in	detail,	along	with	the	relative	pros
and	cons,	a	brief	summary	is	in	order:
1

================================================================================
Ch14 UI BFF GraphQL (PDF pages 570-605)
================================================================================

--- PAGE 570 ---
Fundamentally,	our	users	want	to	engage	with	our	software	in	as	seamless	a	way
as	possible.	Be	that	through	a	browser	on	a	desktop,	or	through	a	native	or	web
mobile	app,	the	result	is	the	same—users	interact	with	our	software	through	a
single	pane	of	glass.	They	shouldn’t	care	whether	the	user	interface	is	built	in	a
modular	or	monolithic	way.	So	we	have	to	look	at	ways	to	break	apart	our	user
interface	functionality	and	bring	it	all	back	together	again,	all	while	resolving	the
challenges	caused	by	single-page	applications,	mobile	devices,	and	more.	These
issues	will	occupy	us	for	the	rest	of	this	chapter.
Pattern:	Monolithic	Frontend
The
	
monolithic	frontend
	pattern	describes	an	architecture	in	which	all	the	UI
state	and	behavior	is	defined	in	the	UI	itself,	with	calls	made	to	backing
microservices	to	get	required	data	or	carry	out	required	operations.	
Figure	14-3
shows	an	example	of	this.	Our	screen	wants	to	display	information	about	an
album	and	its	track	listing,	so	the	UI	makes	a	request	to	pull	this	data	from	the
Album
	microservice.	We	also	display	information	about	the	most	recent	special
offers	by	requesting	information	from	the	
Promotions
	microservice.	In	this
example,	our	microservices	return	JSON	that	the	UI	uses	to	update	the	displayed
information.
--- PAGE 571 ---
Figure	14-3.	
Our	
Album
	details	screen	pulls	information	from	downstream	microservices	to	render	the	UI
This	model	is	the	most	common	one	for	people	building	monolithic	single-page
applications,	often	with	a	dedicated	frontend	team.	The	requirements	of	our
microservices	are	pretty	straightforward—they	just	need	to	share	information	in
a	form	that	can	be	easily	interpreted	by	the	UI.	In	the	case	of	a	web-based	UI,
this	means	our	microservices	would	likely	need	to	provide	data	in	a	textual
format,	JSON	being	the	most	likely	choice.	The	UI	would	then	need	to	create	the
various	components	that	make	up	the	interface,	handling	synchronization	of	state
and	the	like	with	the	backend.	Using	a	binary	protocol	for	service-to-service
communication	would	be	more	difficult	for	web-based	clients	but	could	be	fine
for	native	mobile	devices	or	“thick”	desktop	applications.
When	to	Use	It
There	are	some	downsides	to	this	approach.	Firstly,	by	its	nature	as	a	monolithic
entity,	it	can	become	a	driver	for	(or	be	caused	by)	a	dedicated	frontend	team.
Having	multiple	teams	share	responsibility	for	this	monolithic	frontend	can	be
challenging	due	to	the	multiple	sources	of	contention.	Secondly,	we	have	little
ability	to	tailor	the	responses	for	different	sorts	of	devices.	If	using	web
--- PAGE 572 ---
technology,	we	can	change	the	layout	of	a	screen	to	accommodate	different
device	constraints,	but	this	doesn’t	necessarily	extend	to	changing	the	calls	being
made	to	the	supporting	microservices.	My	mobile	client	may	only	be	able	to
display	10	fields	of	an	order,	but	if	the	microservice	pulls	back	all	one	hundred
fields	of	the	order,	we	end	up	retrieving	unnecessary	data.	One	solution	to	this
approach	is	for	the	user	interface	to	specify	what	fields	to	pull	back	when	it
makes	a	request,	but	this	assumes	that	each	supporting	microservice	supports
this	form	of	interaction.	In	
“GraphQL”
,	we’ll	look	at	how	the	use	of	both	the
backend	for	frontend	pattern	and	GraphQL	can	help	in	this	case.
Really,	this	pattern	works	best	when	you	
want
	all	of	the	implementation	and
behavior	of	your	UI	in	one	deployable	unit.	For	a	single	team	developing	both
the	frontend	and	all	supporting	microservices,	that	might	be	fine.	Personally,	if
you	have	more	than	one	team	working	on	your	software,	I	think	you	should	fight
against	that	urge,	as	it	can	result	in	you	slipping	into	a	layered	architecture	with
the	associated	organizational	silos.	If,	however,	you	are	unable	to	avoid	a	layered
architecture	and	matching	organizational	structure,	this	is	probably	the	pattern
you’ll	end	up	using.
Pattern:	Micro	Frontends
The
	
micro	frontend
	approach	is	an	organizational	pattern	whereby	different	parts
of	a	frontend	can	be	worked	on	and	deployed	independently.	To	quote	from	a
highly	recommended	article	by	Cam	Jackson	on	the	topic,
	we	can	define	
micro
frontends
	as	follows:	“An	architectural	style	where	independently	deliverable
frontend	applications	are	composed	into	a	greater	whole.”
It	becomes	an	essential	pattern	for	stream-aligned	teams	who	want	to	own
delivery	of	both	backend	microservices	and	the	supporting	UI.	Where
microservices	deliver	independent	deployability	for	the	backend	functionality,
micro	frontends	deliver	independent	deployability	for	the	frontend.
The	micro	frontend	concept	has	gained	popularity	due	to	the	challenges	created
by	monolithic,	JavaScript-heavy	web	UIs,	as	typified	by	single-page
applications.	With	a	micro	frontend,	different	teams	can	work	on	and	make
changes	to	different	parts	of	the	frontend.	Coming	back	to	
Figure	14-2
,	the	stock
team,	purchase	flow	team,	and	customer	profile	team	are	each	able	to	change	the
3
--- PAGE 573 ---
frontend	functionality	associated	with	their	stream	of	work	independent	of	the
other	teams.
Implementation
For	web-based	frontends,	we	can	consider	two	key	decompositional	techniques
that	can	aid	implementation	of	the	micro	frontend	pattern.	Widget-based
decomposition	involves	splicing	different	parts	of	a	frontend	together	into	a
single	screen.	Page-based	decomposition,	on	the	other	hand,	has	the	frontend
split	apart	into	independent	web	pages.	Both	approaches	are	worthy	of	further
exploration,	which	we’ll	get	to	shortly.
When	to	Use	It
The	micro	frontend	pattern	is	essential	if	you	want	to	adopt	end-to-end,	stream-
aligned	teams	where	you	are	trying	to	move	away	from	a	layered	architecture.	I
could	also	imagine	it	being	useful	in	a	situation	in	which	you	want	to	retain	a
layered	architecture,	but	the	functionality	of	the	frontend	is	now	so	large	that
multiple	dedicated	frontend	teams	are	required.
There	is	one	key	problem	with	this	approach	that	I’m	not	sure	can	be	solved.
Sometimes	the	capabilities	offered	by	a	microservice	do	not	fit	neatly	into	a
widget	or	a	page.	Sure,	I	might	want	to	surface	recommendations	in	a	box	on	a
page	on	our	website,	but	what	if	I	want	to	weave	in	dynamic	recommendations
elsewhere?	When	I	search,	I	want	the	type	ahead	to	automatically	trigger	fresh
recommendations,	for	example.	The	more	cross-cutting	a	form	of	interaction	is,
the	less	likely	this	model	will	fit,	and	the	more	likely	it	is	that	we’ll	fall	back	to
just	making	API	calls.
SELF-CONTAINED	SYSTEMS
A
	
self-contained	system
	(SCS)	is	a	style	of	architecture	that	arose,	arguably,
out	of	the	lack	of	focus	on	UI	concerns	during	the	early	years	of
microservices.	An	SCS	could	consist	of	multiple	moving	parts	(potentially
microservices)	that	when	taken	together	constitute	a	single	SCS.
As	defined,	a	self-contained	system	has	to	comply	with	some	specific
criteria	that	we	can	see	overlap	with	some	of	the	same	things	we	are	trying	to
--- PAGE 574 ---
achieve	with	microservices.	You	can	find	more	information	about	self-
contained	systems	on	the	very	clear	
SCS	website
,	but	here	are	some
highlights:
Each	SCS	is	an	autonomous	web	application	with	no	shared	UI.
Each	SCS	is	owned	by	one	team.
Async	communication	should	be	used	whenever	possible.
No	business	code	can	be	shared	between	SCSs.
The	SCS	approach	hasn’t	caught	on	to	the	same	extent	as	microservices,	and
it’s	not	a	concept	I	encounter	much,	despite	the	fact	that	I	agree	with	many
of	the	principles	it	outlines.	I	especially	like	calling	out	that	a	self-contained
system	should	be	owned	by	one	team.	I	do	wonder	if	this	lack	of	wider	use
explains	why	some	aspects	of	the	SCS	approach	seem	overly	narrow	and
prescriptive.	For	example,	the	insistence	on	each	SCS	being	an	“autonomous
web	application”	implies	that	many	types	of	user	interface	couldn’t	ever	be
considered	an	SCS.	Does	that	mean	the	native	iOS	application	I’ve	built	that
uses	gRPC	can	be	part	of	an	SCS	or	not?
So	is	the	SCS	approach	in	conflict	with	microservices?	Not	really.	I’ve
worked	on	many	microservices	that,	when	considered	in	isolation	would	fit
the	definition	of	an	SCS	all	by	themselves.	There	are	some	interesting	ideas
in	the	SCS	approach	that	I	agree	with,	and	many	of	them	we’ve	already
covered	in	this	book.	I	just	find	the	approach	to	be	overly	prescriptive,	to	the
extent	that	someone	interested	in	SCSs	might	find	adopting	the	approach	to
be	incredibly	challenging,	as	it	might	require	wholesale	changes	to	so	many
aspects	of	their	software	delivery.
I	do	worry	that	manifestos	like	the	SCS	concept	can	guide	us	down	the	path
of	focusing	too	much	on	activity,	rather	than	on	principles	and	outcomes.
You	could	follow	every	SCS	characteristic	and	still	potentially	miss	the
point.	On	reflection,	I	feel	that	the	SCS	approach	is	a	tech-focused	approach
to	promote	an	organizational	concept.	As	such,	I’d	rather	focus	on	the
importance	of	stream-aligned	teams	with	reduced	coordination,	and	let	the
technology	and	architecture	flow	from	that.
--- PAGE 575 ---
Pattern:	Page-Based	Decomposition
In
	page-based	decomposition,	our	UI	is	decomposed	into	multiple	web	pages.
Different	sets	of	pages	can	be	served	from	different	microservices.	In	
Figure	14-
4
,	we	see	an	example	of	this	pattern	for	MusicCorp.	Requests	for	pages	in
/albums/
	are	routed	directly	to	the	
Albums
	microservice,	which	handles	serving
up	those	pages,	and	we	do	something	similar	with	
/artists/
.	A	common
navigation	is	used	to	help	stitch	together	these	pages.	These	microservices	in
turn	might	fetch	information	that	is	needed	to	construct	these	pages—for
example,	fetching	stock	levels	from	the	
Inventory
	microservice	to	show	on	the
UI	what	items	are	in	stock.
--- PAGE 576 ---
Figure	14-4.	
The	user	interface	consists	of	multiple	pages,	with	different	groups	of	pages	served	up	from
different	microservices
With	this	model,	a	team	owning	the	
Albums
	microservice	would	be	able	to
render	a	full	UI	end	to	end,	making	it	easy	for	the	team	to	understand	how	its
changes	would	impact	the	user.
THE	WEB
Before	single-page	apps,	we	had	the	web.	Our	interaction	with	the	web	was
based	on	visiting	URLs	and	clicking	on	links	that	caused	new	pages	to	be
--- PAGE 577 ---
loaded	into	our	browser.	Our	browsers	were	built	to	allow	for	navigation
around	these	pages,	with	bookmarks	to	mark	pages	of	interest	and	backward
and	forward	controls	to	revisit	previously	accessed	pages.	You	might	all	be
rolling	your	eyes	and	thinking,	“Of	course	I	know	how	the	web	works!”;
however,	it	is	a	style	of	user	interface	that	seems	to	have	fallen	out	of	favor.
Its	simplicity	is	something	I	miss	when	I	see	our	current	web-based	user
interface	implementations—we’ve	lost	a	lot	by	automatically	assuming	that
a	web-based	UI	means	single-page	apps.
In	terms	of	dealing	with	different	types	of	clients,	there	is	nothing	to	stop	the
page	adapting	what	it	shows	based	on	the	nature	of	the	device	requesting	the
page.	The	concepts	of	progressive	enhancement	(or	graceful	degradation)	should
be	well	understood	by	now.
The	simplicity	of	page-based	decomposition	from	a	technical	implementation
point	of	view	is	a	real	appeal	here.	You	don’t	need	any	fancy	JavaScript	running
in	the	browser,	nor	do	you	need	to	use	problematic	iFrames.	The	user	clicks	a
link,	and	a	new	page	is	requested.
Where	to	Use	It
Useful	for	either	a	monolithic	frontend	or	a	micro	frontend	approach,	page-based
decomposition	would	be	my	default	choice	for	user-interface	decomposition	if
my	user	interface	was	a	website.	The	web	page	as	a	unit	of	decomposition	is
such	a	core	concept	of	the	web	as	a	whole	that	it	becomes	a	simple	and	obvious
technique	for	breaking	down	a	large	web-based	user	interface.
I	think	the	problem	is	that	in	the	rush	to	use	single-page	application	technology,
these	user	interfaces	are	becoming	increasingly	rare,	to	the	extent	that	user
experiences	that	in	my	opinion	would	better	fit	a	website	implementation	end	up
being	shoehorned	into	a	single-page	application.
	You	can	of	course	combine
page-based	decomposition	with	some	of	the	other	patterns	we	have	covered.	I
could	have	a	page	that	contains	widgets,	for	example—something	we’ll	look	at
next.
Pattern:	Widget-Based	Decomposition
4
--- PAGE 578 ---
With
	widget-based	decomposition,	a	screen	in	a	graphical	interface	contains
widgets	that	can	be	independently	changed.	In	
Figure	14-5
,	we	see	an	example
of	Musi
⁠
cCorp’s	frontend,	with	two	widgets	providing	the	UI	functionality	for
the	shopping	basket	and	the	recommendations.
Figure	14-5.	
Basket	and	recommendation	widgets	being	used	on	MusicCorp
The	recommendation	widget	for	MusicCorp	pulls	back	a	carousel	of
recommendations	that	can	be	cycled	through	and	filtered.	As	we	see	in
Figure	14-6
,	when	the	user	interacts	with	the	recommendation	widget—cycling
through	to	the	next	set	of	recommendations,	for	example,	or	adding	items	to
their	wishlist—it	may	result	in	calls	being	made	to	backing	microservices,
perhaps	in	this	case	the	
Recommendations
	and	
Wishlist
	microservices.	This
could	align	well	with	a	team	that	owns	both	those	backing	microservices	and	the
component	itself.
--- PAGE 579 ---
Figure	14-6.	
Interactions	between	the	recommendation	micro	frontend	and	supporting	microservices
Generally	speaking,	you’ll	need	a	“container”	application	that	defines	things	like
the	core	navigation	for	the	interface	and	which	widgets	need	to	be	included.	If
we	were	thinking	in	terms	of	end-to-end	stream-oriented	teams,	we	could
imagine	a	single	team	providing	the	recommendation	widget	and	also	being
responsible	for	a	supporting	
Recommendations
	microservice.
This	pattern	is	found	a	lot	in	the	real	world.	The	Spotify	user	interface,	for
example,	makes	heavy	use	of	this	pattern.	One	widget	might	hold	a	playlist,
another	might	hold	information	about	an	artist,	and	a	third	widget	might	hold
information	about	the	artists	and	other	Spotify	users	that	you	follow.	These
widgets	are	combined	in	different	ways	in	different	situations.
You	still	need	some	sort	of	assembly	layer	to	pull	these	parts	together.	This	could
be	as	simple	as	making	use	of	server-side	or	client-side	templates,	though.
Implementation
How	to	splice	a	widget	into	your	UI	will	depend	largely	on	how	your	UI	is
created.	With	a	simple	website,	including	widgets	as	HTML	fragments	using
--- PAGE 580 ---
either	client-side	or	server-side	templating	can	be	pretty	straightforward,
although	you	can	incur	problems	if	the	widgets	have	more	complex	behavior.	As
an	example,	if	our	recommendation	widget	contains	lots	of	JavaScript
functionality,	how	would	we	ensure	that	this	doesn’t	clash	with	behavior	loaded
into	the	rest	of	the	web	page?	Ideally,	the	whole	widget	could	be	packaged	in
such	a	way	that	it	wouldn’t	break	other	aspects	of	the	UI.
The	issue	of	how	to	deliver	self-contained	functionality	into	a	UI	without
breaking	other	functionality	has	historically	been	especially	problematic	with
single-page	apps,	partly	because	the	concept	of	modularization	doesn’t	appear	to
have	been	a	prime	concern	for	how	the	supporting	SPA	frameworks	were
created.	These	challenges	are	worth	exploring	in	more	depth.
Dependencies
Although	iFrames	have	been	a	heavily	used	technique	in	the	past,	we	tend	to
avoid	using	them	to	splice	different	widgets	into	a	single	web	page.	iFrames
have	a	host	of	challenges	regarding	sizing	and	in	terms	of	making	it	difficult	to
communicate	between	the	different	parts	of	the	frontend.	Instead,	widgets	are
normally	either	spliced	into	the	UI	using	server-side	templating	or	else
dynamically	inserted	into	the	browser	on	the	client	side.	In	both	cases,	the
challenge	is	that	the	widget	is	running	in	the	same	browser	page	with	other	parts
of	the	frontend,	meaning	that	you	need	to	be	careful	that	the	different	widgets
don’t	conflict	with	one	another.
For	example,	our	recommendation	widget	might	make	use	of	React	v16,
whereas	the	basket	widget	is	still	using	React	v15.	This	can	be	a	blessing,	of
course,	as	it	can	help	us	try	out	different	technology	(we	could	use	different	SPA
frameworks	for	different	widgets),	but	it	can	also	help	when	it	comes	to	updating
the	versions	of	frameworks	being	used.	I’ve	spoken	to	a	number	of	teams	that
have	had	challenges	in	moving	between	Angular	or	React	versions,	largely	due
to	the	differences	in	conventions	used	in	the	newer	framework	versions.
Upgrading	an	entire	monolithic	UI	could	be	daunting,	but	if	you	can	do	it
incrementally,	updating	parts	of	your	frontend	piece	by	piece,	you	can	break	the
work	up	and	also	mitigate	the	risk	of	the	upgrade	introducing	new	problems.
The	downside	is	that	you	can	end	up	with	a	lot	of	duplication	between
dependencies,	which	in	turn	can	lead	to	a	large	bloat	in	terms	of	page	load	size.	I
--- PAGE 581 ---
could	end	up	including	multiple	different	versions	of	the	React	framework	and
its	associated	transitive	dependencies,	for	example.	It	is	unsurprising	that	many
websites	now	have	a	page	load	size	several	times	greater	than	the	size	of	some
operating	systems.	As	a	quick	unscientific	study,	I	checked	the	page	load	of	the
CNN	website	at	the	time	of	writing,	and	it	was	7.9	MB,	which	is	a	great	deal
larger	than	the	5	MB	for	Alpine	Linux	for	example.	7.9	MB	is	actually	at	the
small	end	of	some	of	the	page	load	sizes	
I	see
.
Communication	between	in-page	widgets
Although	our	widgets	can	be	built	and	deployed	independently,	we	still	want
them	to	be	able	to	interact	with	one	another.	As	an	example	from	MusicCorp,
when	a	user	selects	one	of	the	albums	in	the	best	seller	chart,	we	want	other	parts
of	the	UI	to	update	based	on	the	selection,	as	shown	in	
Figure	14-7
.
Figure	14-7.	
The	charts	widget	can	emit	events	that	other	parts	of	the	UI	listen	to
The	way	we’d	achieve	this	would	be	to	have	the	charts	widget	emit	a	custom
event.	Browsers	already	support	a	number	of	standard	events	that	we	can	use	to
trigger	behavior.	These	events	allow	us	to	react	to	buttons	being	pressed,	the
mouse	being	scrolled,	and	the	like,	and	you’ve	probably	already	made	heavy	use
of	such	event	handling	if	you’ve	spent	any	time	building	JavaScript	frontends.
It’s	a	simple	step	to	create	your	own	custom	events.
So	in	our	case,	when	an	item	is	selected	in	the	chart,	that	widget	raises	a	custom
--- PAGE 582 ---
Album Selected
	event.	The	recommendation	and	album	details	widgets	both
subscribe	to	the	event	and	react	accordingly,	with	the	recommendations	updating
based	on	the	selection,	and	the	album	details	being	loaded	up.	This	interaction
should	of	course	already	be	familiar	to	us,	as	it	mimics	the	event-driven
interaction	between	microservices	that	we	discussed	in	
“Pattern:	Event-Driven
Communication”
.	The	only	real	difference	is	that	these	event	interactions	happen
inside	the	browser.
WEB	COMPONENTS
At
	first	glance,	the	Web	Component	Standard	should	be	an	obvious	way	to
implement	these	widgets.	The	Web	Component	Standard	describes	how	you
can	create	a	UI	component	that	can	sandbox	its	HTML,	CSS,	and	JavaScript
aspects.	Unfortunately,	the	web	components	standard	seems	to	have	taken	a
long	time	to	settle	down,	and	a	longer	time	to	be	properly	supported	by
browsers.	Much	of	the	initial	work	around	them	seems	to	have	stalled,	which
has	obviously	impacted	adoption.	I	have	yet	to	meet	an	organization	that
uses	web	components	served	up	from	microservices,	for	
example.
Given	that	the	Web	Component	Standard	is	now	fairly	well	supported,	its
possible	that	we’ll	see	them	emerge	as	a	common	way	to	implement
sandboxed	widgets	or	larger	micro	frontends	in	the	future,	but	after	years	of
waiting	for	this	to	come	about,	I’m	not	holding	my	breath.
When	to	Use	It
This	pattern	makes	it	easy	for	multiple	stream-aligned	teams	to	contribute	to	the
same	UI.	It	allows	for	more	flexibility	than	does	page-based	decomposition,	as
the	widgets	delivered	by	different	teams	can	all	coexist	in	the	UI	at	the	same
time.	It	also	creates	the	opportunity	for	enabling	teams	to	provide	reusable
widgets	that	can	be	used	by	stream-aligned	teams—an	example	of	which	I
shared	earlier	when	mentioning	the	role	of	the	
Financial	Times
	Origami	team.
The	widget	decomposition	pattern	is	incredibly	useful	if	you	are	building	a	rich
web-based	user	interface,	and	I	would	strongly	suggest	the	use	of	widgets	in	any
situation	in	which	you	are	making	use	of	a	SPA	framework	and	want	to	break	up
responsibilities	for	the	frontend,	moving	toward	a	micro	frontend	approach.	The
--- PAGE 583 ---
techniques	and	supporting	technology	around	this	concept	have	improved
markedly	over	the	last	few	years,	to	the	extent	that,	when	building	an	SPA-based
web	interface,	breaking	down	my	UI	into	micro	frontends	would	be	my	default
approach.
My	main	concerns	around	widget	decomposition	in	the	context	of	SPAs	have	to
do	with	the	work	required	to	set	up	the	separate	bundling	of	components	and	the
issues	around	payload	size.	The	former	issue	is	likely	a	one-time	cost	and	just
involves	working	out	what	style	of	packaging	best	suits	your	existing	toolchain.
The	latter	issue	is	more	problematic.	A	simple	small	change	in	the	dependencies
of	one	widget	could	result	in	a	whole	host	of	new	dependencies	being	included
in	the	application,	drastically	inflating	the	page	size.	If	you	are	building	a	user
interface	where	page	weight	is	a	concern,	I’d	suggest	putting	some	automated
checks	in	place	to	alert	you	if	the	page	weight	goes	above	a	certain	acceptable
threshold.
On	the	other	hand,	if	the	widgets	are	simpler	in	nature	and	are	largely	static
components,	the	ability	to	include	them	using	something	as	simple	as	client-side
or	server-side	templating	is	very	straightforward	by	comparison.
Constraints
Before
	moving	on	to	discuss	our	next	pattern,	I	want	to	address	the	topic	of
constraints.	Increasingly,	the	users	of	our	software	interact	with	it	from	a	variety
of	different	devices.	Each	of	these	devices	imposes	different	constraints	that	our
software	has	to	accommodate.	On	a	desktop	web	application,	for	example,	we
consider	constraints	such	as	what	browser	visitors	are	using,	or	their	screen
resolution.	People	with	impaired	sight	may	make	use	of	our	software	via	screen
readers,	and	people	with	restricted	mobility	may	be	more	likely	to	use	keyboard-
style	inputs	to	navigate	the	screen.
So	although	our	core	services—our	core	offering—might	be	the	same,	we	need	a
way	to	adapt	them	for	the	different	constraints	that	exist	for	each	type	of
interface,	and	for	the	different	needs	of	our	users.	This	can	be	driven	purely	from
a	financial	standpoint	if	you	want—more	happy	customers	means	more	money.
But	there	is	also	a	human,	ethical	consideration	that	comes	to	the	fore:	when	we
ignore	customers	that	have	specific	needs,	we	deny	them	the	chance	to	use	our
--- PAGE 584 ---
services.	In	some	contexts,	making	it	impossible	for	people	to	navigate	a	UI	due
to	design	decisions	has	led	to	legal	action	and	fines—for	example,	the	UK,	with
a	number	of	other	countries,	rightly	has	legislation	in	place	to	ensure	access	to
websites	for	people	with	disabilities.
Mobile	devices	have	brought	a	whole	host	of	new	constraints.	The	way	our
mobile	applications	communicate	with	a	server	can	have	an	impact.	It	isn’t	just
about	pure	bandwidth	concerns,	where	the	limitations	of	mobile	networks	can
play	a	part.	Different	sorts	of	interactions	can	drain	battery	life,	leading	to	some
angry	customers.
The	nature	of	interactions	changes	according	to	the	device,	too.	I	can’t	easily
right-click	on	a	tablet.	On	a	mobile	phone,	I	may	want	to	design	my	interface	for
mostly	one-handed	use,	with	most	operations	being	controlled	by	a	thumb.
Elsewhere,	I	might	allow	people	to	interact	with	services	via	SMS	in	places
where	bandwidth	is	at	a	premium—the	use	of	SMS	as	an	interface	is	huge	in	the
global	south,	for	example.
A	wider	discussion	on	the	accessibility	of	user	interfaces	is	outside	the	scope	of
this	book,	but	we	can	at	least	explore	the	specific	challenges	caused	by	different
types	of	clients,	such	as	mobile	devices.	
A	common	solution	to	handling	the
different	needs	of	client	devices	is	to	perform	some	sort	of	filtering	and	call
aggregation	on	the	client	side.	Data	that	isn’t	required	can	be	stripped	and
doesn’t	need	to	be	sent	to	the	device,	and	multiple	calls	can	be	combined	into	a
single	call.
Next,	we’ll	look	at	two	patterns	that	can	be	useful	in	this	space—the	central
aggregating	gateway	and	the	backend	for	frontend	pattern.	We’ll	also	look	at
how	GraphQL	is	being	used	to	help	tailor	responses	for	different	types	of
interfaces.
Pattern:	Central	Aggregating	Gateway
A
	central-purpose	aggregating	gateway	sits	between	external	user	interfaces	and
downstream	microservices	and	performs	call	filtering	and	aggregation	for	all
user	interfaces.	Without	aggregation,	a	user	interface	may	have	to	make	multiple
calls	to	fetch	required	information,	often	throwing	away	data	that	was	retrieved
but	not	needed.
5
--- PAGE 585 ---
In	
Figure	14-8
,	we	see	such	a	situation.	We	want	to	display	a	screen	with
information	about	a	customer’s	recent	orders.	The	screen	needs	to	display	some
general	information	about	a	customer	and	then	list	a	number	of	their	orders	in
date	order,	along	with	summary	information,	showing	the	date	and	status	of	each
order	as	well	as	the	price.
Figure	14-8.	
Making	multiple	calls	to	fetch	information	for	a	single	screen
We	make	a	direct	call	to	the	
Customer
	microservice,	pulling	back	the	full
information	about	the	customer,	even	though	we	need	only	a	few	fields.	We	then
fetch	the	order	details	from	the	
Order
	microservice.	We	could	improve	the
situation	somewhat,	perhaps	by	changing	the	
Customer
	or	
Order
	microservice
to	return	data	that	better	fits	our	requirements	in	this	specific	case,	but	that
would	still	require	two	calls	to	be	made.
With	an	aggregating	gateway,	we	can	instead	issue	a	single	call	from	the	
user
interface	to	the	gateway.	The	aggregating	gateway	then	carries	out	all	the
required	calls,	combines	the	results	into	a	single	response,	and	throws	away	any
data	that	the	user	interface	doesn’t	require	(
Figure	14-9
).
--- PAGE 586 ---
Figure	14-9.	
The	server-side	central	gateway	handles	filtering	and	aggregation	of	calls	to	downstream
microservices
Such	a	gateway	could	also	help	batch	calls	as	well.	For	example,	rather	than
needing	to	look	up	10	order	IDs	via	separate	calls,	I	could	send	one	batch	request
to	the	aggregating	gateway,	and	it	could	handle	the	rest.
Fundamentally,	having	some	sort	of	aggregating	gateway	can	reduce	the	number
of	calls	that	the	external	client	needs	to	make	and	reduce	the	amount	of	data	that
needs	to	be	sent	back.	This	can	lead	to	significant	benefits	in	terms	of	reducing
bandwidth	use	and	improving	the	latency	of	the	application.
Ownership
As	more	user	interfaces	make	use	of	the	central	gateway,	and	as	more
microservices	need	call	aggregation	and	filtering	logic	for	those	user	interfaces,
the	gateway	becomes	a	potential	source	of	contention.	Who	owns	the	gateway?
Is	it	owned	by	the	people	creating	the	user	interfaces,	or	by	the	people	who	own
the	microservices?	Often	I	find	that	the	central	aggregating	gateway	does	so
much	that	it	ends	up	being	owned	by	a	dedicated	team.	Hello,	siloed	layered
architecture!
Fundamentally,	the	nature	of	the	call	aggregation	and	filtering	is	largely	driven
by	the	requirements	of	the	external	user	interfaces.	As	such,	it	would	make
--- PAGE 587 ---
natural	sense	for	the	gateway	to	be	owned	by	the	team(s)	creating	the	UI.
Unfortunately,	especially	in	an	organization	in	which	you	have	a	dedicated
frontend	team,	that	team	may	not	have	the	skills	to	build	such	a	vital	backend
component.
Regardless	of	who	ends	up	owning	the	central	gateway,	it	has	the	potential	to
become	a	bottleneck	for	delivery.	If	multiple	teams	need	to	make	changes	to	the
gateway,	development	on	it	will	require	coordination	between	those	teams,
slowing	things	down.	If	one	team	owns	it,	that	team	can	become	a	bottleneck
when	it	comes	to	delivery.	We’ll	see	how	the	backend	for	frontend	pattern	can
help	resolve	these	issues	shortly.
Different	Types	of	User	Interfaces
If	the	challenges	around	ownership	can	be	managed,	a	central	aggregating
gateway	might	still	work	well,	until	we	consider	the	issue	of	different	devices
and	their	different	needs.	As	we’ve	discussed,	the	affordances	of	a	mobile	device
are	very	different.	We	have	less	screen	real	estate,	which	means	we	can	display
less	data.	Opening	lots	of	connections	to	server-side	resources	can	drain	battery
life	and	limited	data	plans.	Additionally,	the	nature	of	the	interactions	we	want	to
provide	on	a	mobile	device	can	differ	drastically.	Think	of	a	typical	bricks-and-
mortar	retailer.	On	a	desktop	app,	I	might	allow	you	to	look	at	the	items	for	sale
and	order	them	online	or	reserve	them	in	a	store.	On	the	mobile	device,	though,	I
might	want	to	allow	you	to	scan	bar	codes	to	do	price	comparisons	or	give	you
context-based	offers	while	in	store.	As	we’ve	built	more	and	more	mobile
applications,	we’ve	come	to	realize	that	people	use	them	very	differently,	and
therefore	the	functionality	we	need	to	expose	will	differ	too.
So	in	practice,	our	mobile	devices	will	want	to	make	different	and	fewer	calls
and	will	want	to	display	different	(and	probably	less)	data	than	their	desktop
counterparts.	This	means	that	we	need	to	add	additional	functionality	to	our	API
backend	to	support	different	types	of	user	interfaces.	In	
Figure	14-10
,	we	see
MusicCorp’s	web	interface	and	mobile	interface	both	using	the	same	gateway
for	the	customer	summary	screen,	but	each	client	wants	a	different	set	of
information.	The	web	interface	wants	more	information	about	the	customer	and
also	has	a	brief	summary	of	the	items	in	each	order.	This	leads	us	to	implement
two	different	aggregating	and	filtering	calls	in	our	backend	gateway.
--- PAGE 588 ---
Figure	14-10.	
Supporting	different	aggregating	calls	for	different	devices
This	can	lead	to	a	lot	of	bloat	in	the	gateway,	especially	if	we	consider	different
native	mobile	applications,	customer-facing	websites,	internal	administration
interfaces,	and	the	like.	We	also	have	the	problem,	of	course,	that	while	these
different	UIs	might	be	owned	by	different	teams,	the	gateway	is	a	single	unit—
we	have	the	same	old	problems	of	multiple	teams	having	to	work	on	the	same
deployed	unit.	Our	single	aggregating	backend	can	become	a	bottleneck,	as	so
many	changes	are	trying	to	be	made	to	the	same	deployable	artifact.
Multiple	Concerns
There	are	a	whole	host	of	concerns	that	may	need	to	be	addressed	on	the	server
side	when	it	comes	to	handling	API	calls.	Aside	from	the	call	aggregation	and
filtering,	we	can	think	of	more	generic	concerns	like	API	key	management,	user
authentication,	or	call	routing.	Often	these	generic	concerns	can	be	handled	by
API	gateway	products,	which	are	available	in	many	sizes	and	for	many	different
price	points	(some	of	which	are	eye-wateringly	high!).	Depending	on	the
--- PAGE 589 ---
sophistication	you	require,	it	can	make	a	lot	of	sense	to	purchase	a	product	(or
license	a	service)	to	handle	some	of	these	concerns	for	you.	Do	you	really	want
to	manage	API	key	issuing,	tracking,	rate	limiting,	and	so	on	yourself?	By	all
means,	look	at	products	in	this	space	to	solve	these	generic	concerns,	but	be
wary	about	also	trying	to	use	these	products	to	do	your	call	aggregation	and
filtering,	even	if	they	claim	they	can.
When	customizing	a	product	built	by	someone	else,	you	often	have	to	work	in
their	world.	Your	toolchain	is	restricted	because	you	may	not	be	able	to	use	your
programming	language	and	your	development	practices.	Rather	than	writing
Java	code,	you’re	configuring	routing	rules	in	some	odd	product-specific	DSL
(probably	using	JSON).	It	can	be	a	frustrating	experience,	and	you	are	baking
some	of	the	smarts	of	your	system	into	a	third-party	product.	This	can	reduce
your	ability	to	move	this	behavior	later.	It’s	common	to	realize	that	a	pattern	of
call	aggregation	actually	relates	to	some	domain	functionality	that	could	justify	a
microservice	in	its	own	right	(something	we’ll	explore	more	shortly	when	we
talk	about	BFFs).	If	this	behavior	is	in	a	vendor-specific	configuration,	moving
this	functionality	can	be	more	problematic,	as	you’d	likely	have	to	reinvent	it.
The	situation	can	become	even	worse	if	the	aggregating	gateway	becomes
complex	enough	to	require	a	dedicated	team	to	own	and	manage	it.	At	worst,
adopting	more	horizontal	team	ownership	can	lead	to	a	situation	in	which	to	roll
out	some	new	functionality	you	have	to	get	a	frontend	team	to	make	changes,	the
aggregating	gateway	team	to	make	changes,	and	the	team(s)	that	owns	the
microservice	to	also	make	its	changes.	Suddenly	everything	starts	going	much
more	slowly.
So	if	you	want	to	make	use	of	a	dedicated	API	gateway,	go	ahead—but	strongly
consider	having	your	filtering	and	aggregation	logic	elsewhere.
When	to	Use	It
For	a	solution	owned	by	a	single	team,	where	one	team	develops	the	user
interface	and	the	backend	microservices,	I	would	be	OK	with	having	a	single
central	aggregating	gateway.	That	said,	this	team	sounds	like	it	is	doing	a	LOT
of	work—in	such	situations,	I	tend	to	see	a	large	degree	of	conformity	across	the
user	interfaces,	which	often	removes	the	need	for	these	aggregation	points	in	the
first	place.
--- PAGE 590 ---
If	you	do	decide	to	adopt	a	single	central	aggregating	gateway,	please	be	careful
to	limit	what	functionality	you	put	inside	it.	I’d	be	extremely	wary	of	pushing
this	functionality	into	a	more	generic	API	gateway	product,	for	example,	for
reasons	outlined	previously.
The	concept	of	doing	some	form	of	call	filtering	and	aggregation	on	the	backend
can	be	really	important,	though,	in	terms	of	optimizing	the	user’s	experience	of
our	user	interfaces.	The	issue	is	that	in	a	delivery	organization	with	multiple
teams,	a	central	gateway	can	lead	to	requirements	for	lots	of	coordination	among
those	teams.
So	if	we	still	want	do	to	aggregation	and	filtering	on	the	backend	but	want	to
remove	the	problems	associated	with	the	ownership	model	of	a	central	gateway,
what	can	we	do?	That’s	where	the	
backend	for	frontend
	pattern	comes	in.
Pattern:	Backend	for	Frontend	(BFF)
The
	main	distinction	between	a	BFF	and	a	central	aggregating	gateway	is	that	a
BFF	is	single	purpose	in	nature—it	is	developed	for	a	specific	user	interface.
This	pattern	has	proved	to	be	very	successful	in	helping	handle	the	differing
concerns	of	user	interfaces,	and	I’ve	seen	it	work	well	at	a	number	of
organizations,	including	SoundCloud
	and	REA.	As	we	see	in	
Figure	14-11
,
where	we	revisit	MusicCorp,	the	web	and	mobile	shopping	interfaces	now	have
their	own	aggregating	backends.
6
--- PAGE 591 ---
Figure	14-11.	
Each	user	interface	has	its	own	BFF
Due	to	its	specific	nature,	the	BFF	sidesteps	some	of	the	concerns	around	the
central	aggregating	gateway.	As	we	aren’t	trying	to	be	all	things	to	all	people,	a
BFF	avoids	becoming	a	bottleneck	for	development,	with	multiple	teams	all
trying	to	share	ownership.	We	are	also	less	worried	about	coupling	with	the	user
interface,	as	coupling	is	much	more	acceptable.	A	given	BFF	is	for	a	specific
user	interface—assuming	they	are	owned	by	the	same	team,	then	the	inherent
coupling	is	far	easier	to	manage.	I	often	describe	the	use	of	a	BFF	with	a	user
interface	as	though	the	UI	is	actually	split	into	two	parts.	One	part	sits	on	the
client	device	(the	web	interface	or	native	mobile	application),	with	the	second
part,	the	BFF,	being	embedded	on	the	server	side.
The	BFF	is	tightly	coupled	to	a	specific	user	experience	and	will	typically	be
maintained	by	the	same	team	as	the	user	interface,	thereby	making	it	easier	to
define	and	adapt	the	API	as	the	UI	requires,	while	also	simplifying	the	process
of	lining	up	release	of	both	the	client	and	server	components.
--- PAGE 592 ---
How	Many	BFFs?
When	it	comes	to	delivering	the	same	(or	similar)	user	experience	on	different
platforms,	I	have	seen	two	different	approaches.	The	model	I	prefer	(and	the
model	I	see	most	often)	is	to	strictly	have	a	single	BFF	for	each	different	type	of
client—this	is	a	model	I	saw	used	at	REA,	as	outlined	in	
Figure	14-12
.	The
Android	and	iOS	applications,	while	covering	similar	functionality,	each	had
their	own	BFF.
Figure	14-12.	
The	REA	iOS	and	Android	applications	have	different	BFFs
A	variation	is	to	look	for	opportunities	to	use	the	same	BFF	for	more	than	one
type	of	client,	albeit	for	the	same	type	of	user	interface.	SoundCloud’s	Listener
application	allows	people	to	listen	to	content	on	their	Android	or	iOS	devices.
SoundCloud	uses	a	single	BFF	for	both	Android	and	iOS,	as	shown	in
Figure	14-13
.
--- PAGE 593 ---
Figure	14-13.	
SoundCloud	sharing	a	BFF	between	iOS	and	Android	applications
My	main	concern	with	this	second	model	is	that	the	more	types	of	clients	you
have	using	a	single	BFF,	the	more	temptation	there	may	be	for	the	BFF	to
become	bloated	by	handling	multiple	concerns.	The	key	thing	to	understand
here,	though,	is	that	even	when	clients	share	a	BFF,	it	is	for	the	same	class	of
user	interface—so	while	SoundCloud’s	native	Listener	applications	for	iOS	and
Android	use	the	same	BFF,	other	native	applications	would	use	different	BFFs.
I’m	more	relaxed	about	using	this	model	if	the	same	team	owns	both	the
Android	and	iOS	applications	and	owns	the	BFF	too—if	these	applications	are
maintained	by	different	teams,	I’m	more	inclined	to	recommend	the	more	strict
model.	So	you	can	see	your	organizational	structure	as	being	one	of	the	main
drivers	for	deciding	which	model	makes	the	most	sense	(Conway’s	law	wins
again).
Stewart	Gleadow	from	REA	has	suggested	the	guideline	“one	experience,	one
BFF.”	So	if	the	iOS	and	Android	experiences	are	very	similar,	then	it	is	easier	to
7
--- PAGE 594 ---
justify	having	a	single	BFF.
	If,	however,	they	diverge	greatly,	then	having
separate	BFFs	makes	more	sense.	In	the	case	of	REA,	although	there	was
overlap	between	the	two	experiences,	different	teams	owned	them	and	rolled	out
similar	features	in	different	ways.	Sometimes	the	same	feature	might	be
deployed	differently	on	a	different	mobile	device—what	amounts	to	a	native
experience	for	an	Android	application	might	need	to	be	reworked	to	feel	native
on	iOS.
Another	lesson	from	the	REA	story	(and	one	we’ve	covered	many	times	already)
is	that	software	often	works	best	when	aligned	around	team	boundaries,	and
BFFs	are	no	exception.	SoundCloud	having	a	single	mobile	team	makes	having
a	single	BFF	seem	sensible	at	first	glance,	as	does	REA	having	two	different
BFFs	for	the	two	separate	teams.	It’s	worth	noting	that	the	SoundCloud
engineers	I	spoke	to	suggested	that	having	one	BFF	for	the	Android	and	iOS
listener	applications	was	something	they	might	reconsider—they	had	a	single
mobile	team,	but	in	reality	they	were	a	mix	of	Android	and	iOS	specialists,	and
they	found	themselves	mostly	working	on	one	or	the	other	application,	which
implies	they	were	really	two	teams	in	effect.
Often	the	driver	toward	having	a	smaller	number	of	BFFs	is	a	desire	to	reuse
server-side	functionality	to	avoid	too	much	duplication,	but	there	are	other	ways
to	handle	this,	which	we’ll	cover	next.
Reuse	and	BFFs
One	of	the	concerns	of	having	a	single	BFF	per	user	interface	is	that	you	can	end
up	with	lots	of	duplication	among	the	BFFs.	For	example,	they	may	end	up
performing	the	same	types	of	aggregation,	have	the	same	or	similar	code	for
interfacing	with	downstream	services,	and	so	on.	If	you	are	looking	to	extract
common	functionality,	then	often	one	of	the	challenges	is	in	finding	it.	That
duplication	may	occur	in	the	BFFs	themselves,	but	it	can	also	end	up	being
baked	into	the	different	clients.	Due	to	the	fact	that	these	clients	use	very
different	technology	stacks,	identifying	the	fact	that	this	duplication	is	occurring
can	be	difficult.	With	organizations	tending	to	have	a	common	technology	stack
for	server-side	components,	having	multiple	BFFs	with	duplication	may	be
easier	to	spot	and	factor	out.
Some	people	react	to	this	by	wanting	to	merge	the	BFFs	back	together,	and	they
7
--- PAGE 595 ---
end	up	with	a	general-purpose	aggregating	gateway.	My	concern	around
regressing	to	a	single	aggregating	gateway	is	that	we	can	end	up	losing	more
than	we	gain,	especially	as	there	can	be	other	ways	to	approach	this	duplication.
As	I	have	said	before,	I	am	fairly	relaxed	about	duplicated	code	across
microservices.	Which	is	to	say	that,	while	in	a	single	microservice	boundary	I
will	typically	do	whatever	I	can	to	refactor	out	duplication	into	suitable
abstractions,	I	don’t	have	the	same	reaction	when	confronted	by	duplication
across	microservices.	This	is	mostly	because	I	am	often	more	worried	about	the
potential	for	the	extraction	of	shared	code	to	lead	to	tight	coupling	between
services	(a	topic	we	explored	in	
“DRY	and	the	Perils	of	Code	Reuse	in	a
Microservice	World”
).	That	said,	there	are	certainly	cases	where	this	is
warranted.
When	the	time	does	arise	to	extract	common	code	to	enable	reuse	between	BFFs,
there	are	two	obvious	options.	The	first,	which	is	often	cheaper	but	more	fraught,
is	to	extract	a	shared	library	of	some	sort.	The	reason	this	can	be	problematic	is
that	shared	libraries	are	a	prime	source	of	coupling,	especially	when	used	to
generate	client	libraries	for	calling	downstream	services.	Nonetheless,	there	are
situations	in	which	this	feels	right—especially	when	the	code	being	abstracted	is
purely	a	concern	inside	the	service.
The	other	option	is	to	extract	the	shared	functionality	into	a	new	microservice.
This	can	work	well	if	the	functionality	being	extracted	represents	business
domain	functionality.	A	variation	of	this	approach	might	be	to	push	aggregation
responsibilities	to	microservices	further	downstream.	Let’s	consider	a	situation
in	which	we	want	to	display	a	list	of	the	items	in	a	customer’s	wishlist,	along
with	information	about	whether	or	not	those	items	are	in	stock	and	the	current
price,	as	shown	in	
Table	14-1
.
Table	14-1.	
Displaying	the	wishlist	for	a	customer	of
MusicCorp
The	Brakes,	Give	Blood
In	Stock!
$5.99
Blue	Juice,	Retrospectable
Out	of	Stock
$7.50
Hot	Chip,	Why	Make	Sense?
Going	Fast!	(2	left)
$9.99
--- PAGE 596 ---
The	
Customer
	microservice	stores	information	about	the	wishlist	and	the	ID	of
each	item.	The	
Catalog
	microservice	stores	the	name	and	price	of	each	item,
and	the	stock	levels	are	stored	in	our	
Inventory
	microservice.	To	display	this
same	control	on	both	the	iOS	and	Android	applications,	each	BFF	would	need	to
make	the	same	three	calls	to	the	supporting	microservices,	as	shown	in
Figure	14-14
.
Figure	14-14.	
Both	BFFs	are	performing	the	same	operations	to	display	a	wishlist
A	way	to	reduce	the	duplication	in	functionality	here	would	be	to	extract	this
common	behavior	into	a	new	microservice.	In	
Figure	14-15
,	we	see	our	new
dedicated	
Wishlist
	microservice	that	our	Android	and	iOS	applications	can
both	make	use	of.
I	have	to	say	that	the	same	code	being	used	in	two	places	wouldn’t	automatically
cause	me	to	want	to	extract	out	a	service	in	this	way,	but	I’d	certainly	be
considering	it	if	the	transaction	cost	of	creating	a	new	service	was	low	enough,
--- PAGE 597 ---
or	if	I	was	using	the	code	in	more	than	a	couple	of	places—in	this	specific
situation,	if	we	were	also	showing	wishlists	on	our	web	interface,	for	example,	a
dedicated	microservice	would	start	to	look	even	more	appealing.	I	think	the	old
adage	of	creating	an	abstraction	when	you’re	about	to	implement	something	for
the	third	time	still	feels	like	a	good	rule	of	thumb,	even	at	the	service	level.
Figure	14-15.	
Common	functionality	is	extracted	into	a	
Wishlist
	microservice,	allowing	for	reuse	across
BFFs
BFFs	for	Desktop	Web	and	Beyond
You	can	think	of	BFFs	as	just	having	a	use	in	solving	the	constraints	of	mobile
devices.	The	desktop	web	experience	is	typically	delivered	on	more	powerful
devices	with	better	connectivity,	where	the	cost	of	making	multiple	downstream
--- PAGE 598 ---
calls	is	manageable.	This	can	allow	your	web	application	to	make	multiple	calls
directly	to	downstream	services	without	the	need	for	a	BFF.
I	have	seen	situations,	though,	in	which	the	use	of	a	BFF	for	the	web	too	can	be
useful.	When	you	are	generating	a	larger	portion	of	the	web	UI	on	the	server	side
(e.g.,	using	server-side	templating),	a	BFF	is	the	obvious	place	where	this	can	be
done.	This	approach	can	also	simplify	caching	somewhat,	as	you	can	place	a
reverse	proxy	in	front	of	the	BFF,	allowing	you	to	cache	the	results	of
aggregated	calls.
I’ve	seen	at	least	one	organization	use	BFFs	for	other	external	parties	that	need
to	make	calls.	Coming	back	to	my	perennial	example	of	MusicCorp,	I	might
expose	a	BFF	to	allow	third	parties	to	extract	royalty	payment	information,	or	to
allow	streaming	to	a	range	of	set-top	box	devices,	as	we	see	in	
Figure	14-16
.
These	aren’t	really	BFFs	anymore,	as	the	external	parties	aren’t	presenting	a
“user	interface,”	but	this	is	an	example	of	the	same	pattern	being	used	in	a
different	context,	so	I	thought	it	worth	sharing.
Figure	14-16.	
Using	BFFs	to	manage	external	APIs
This	approach	can	be	especially	effective,	as	third	parties	often	have	limited	to
no	ability	(or	desire)	to	use	or	change	the	API	calls	they	make.	With	a	central
--- PAGE 599 ---
API	backend,	you	may	have	to	keep	old	versions	of	the	API	around	just	to
satisfy	a	small	subset	of	your	outside	parties	unable	to	make	a	change;	with	a
BFF,	this	problem	is	substantially	reduced.	It	also	limits	the	impact	of	breaking
changes.	You	could	change	the	API	for	Facebook	in	a	way	that	would	break
compatibility	with	other	parties,	but	as	they	use	a	different	BFF,	they	aren’t
impacted	by	this	change.
When	to	Use
For	an	application	that	is	only	providing	a	web	UI,	I	suspect	a	BFF	will	make
sense	only	if	and	when	you	have	a	significant	amount	of	aggregation	required	on
the	server	side.	Otherwise,	I	think	some	of	the	other	UI	composition	techniques
we’ve	already	covered	can	work	just	as	well	without	requiring	an	additional
server-side	component.
The	moment	that	you	need	to	provide	specific	functionality	for	a	mobile	UI	or
third	party,	though,	I	would	strongly	consider	using	BFFs	for	each	client	from
the	outset.	I	might	reconsider	if	the	cost	of	deploying	additional	services	is	high,
but	the	separation	of	concerns	that	a	BFF	can	bring	make	it	a	fairly	compelling
proposition	in	most	cases.	I’d	be	even	more	inclined	to	use	a	BFF	if	there	is
significant	separation	between	the	people	building	the	UI	and	downstream
services,	for	reasons	I’ve	outlined.
We	then	come	to	the	question	of	how	to	implement	the	BFF—let’s	look	at
GraphQL	and	the	role	it	can	play.
GraphQL
GraphQL
	is	a	query	language	that	allows	clients	to	issue	queries	to	access	or
mutate	data.	Like	SQL,	GraphQL	allows	these	queries	to	be	changed
dynamically,	allowing	the	client	to	define	exactly	what	information	it	wants
back.	With	a	standard	REST	over	HTTP	call,	for	example,	when	issuing	a	GET
request	for	an	
Order
	resource	you’d	get	back	all	the	fields	for	that	order.	But
what	if,	in	that	particular	situation,	you	only	wanted	the	total	amount	of	the
order?	You	could	just	ignore	the	other	fields,	of	course,	or	else	provide	an
alternative	resource	(an	
Order Summary
,	perhaps)	that	contains	just	the
information	you	need.	With	GraphQL,	you	could	issue	a	request	asking	for	only
--- PAGE 600 ---
the	fields	you	need,	as	we	see	in	
Example	14-1
.
Example	14-1.	
A	example	GraphQL	query	being	used	to	fetch	order	information
{
    
order(id:
 
123)
 
{
        
date
        
total
        
status
        
delivery
 
{
            
company
            
driver
            
duedate
        
}
    
}
}
In	this	query,	we’ve	asked	for	order	
123
,	and	we’ve	asked	for	the	total	price	and
the	status	of	the	order.	We’ve	gone	further	and	asked	for	information	about	the
delivery	of	this	order,	so	we	can	get	information	on	the	name	of	the	driver	who
will	deliver	our	package,	the	company	they	work	for,	and	when	the	package	is
expected	to	arrive.	With	a	normal	REST	API,	unless	the	delivery	information
was	contained	inside	the	
Order
	resource,	we	may	have	to	make	an	additional
call	to	fetch	this	information.	So	
not	only	is	GraphQL	helping	us	ask	for	exactly
the	fields	we	want,	but	it	can	also	reduce	round	trips.	A	query	like	this	requires
that	we	define	the	various	data	types	we	are	accessing—explicitly	defining	types
is	a	key	part	of	GraphQL.
To	implement	GraphQL,	we	need	a	
resolver
	to	handle	the	queries.	A	GraphQL
resolver	sits	on	the	server	side	and	maps	the	GraphQL	queries	into	calls	to
actually	fetch	the	information.	So	in	the	case	of	a	microservice	architecture,
we’d	need	a	resolver	that	would	be	capable	of	mapping	the	request	for	the	order
with	
ID 123
	into	an	equivalent	call	to	a	microservice.
In	this	way,	we	can	use	GraphQL	to	implement	an	aggregating	gateway,	or	even
a	BFF.	The	benefit	of	GraphQL	is	that	we	can	easily	change	the	aggregation	and
filtering	we	want	simply	by	changing	the	query	from	the	client;	no	changes	are
needed	at	the	GraphQL	server	side	of	things	as	long	as	the	GraphQL	types
support	the	query	we	want	to	make.	If	we	no	longer	wanted	to	see	the	driver
name	in	the	example	query,	we	could	just	omit	this	from	the	query	itself	and	it
would	no	longer	be	sent.	On	the	other	hand,	if	we	wanted	to	see	the	number	of
points	we	were	awarded	for	this	order,	assuming	this	information	is	available	in
--- PAGE 601 ---
the	order	type,	we	could	just	add	this	to	the	query	and	the	information	would	be
returned.	This	is	a	significant	advantage	over	BFF	implementations	that	require
changes	in	aggregation	logic	to	also	be	applied	to	the	BFF	itself.
The	flexibility	that	GraphQL	gives	for	the	client	device	to	dynamically	change
the	queries	being	made	without	server-side	changes	means	that	there	is	less
chance	of	your	GraphQL	server	becoming	a	shared,	contended	resource,	as	we
discussed	with	the	general-purpose	aggregating	gateway.	That	said,	server-side
changes	will	still	be	needed	if	you	need	to	expose	new	types	or	add	fields	to
existing	types.	As	such,	you	may	still	want	multiple	GraphQL	server	backends	to
align	along	team	boundaries—so	GraphQL	becomes	a	way	of	implementing	a
BFF.
I	do	have	concerns	around	GraphQL,	which	I	outlined	in	detail	in	
Chapter	5
.
That	said,	it	is	a	neat	solution	allowing	for	dynamic	querying	to	suit	the	needs	of
different	types	of	user	interfaces.
A	Hybrid	Approach
Many
	of	the	aforementioned	options	don’t	need	to	be	one-size-fits-all.	I	could
see	an	organization	adopting	the	approach	of	widget-based	decomposition	to
create	a	website	but	using	a	backend	for	frontend	approach	when	it	comes	to	its
mobile	application.	The	key	point	is	that	we	need	to	retain	cohesion	of	the
underlying	capabilities	that	we	offer	our	users.	We	need	to	ensure	that	logic
associated	with	ordering	music	or	changing	customer	details	lives	inside	those
services	that	handle	those	operations	and	doesn’t	get	smeared	all	over	our
system.	Avoiding	the	trap	of	putting	too	much	behavior	into	any	intermediate
layers	is	a	tricky	balancing	act.
Summary
As	I	hope	I	have	shown,	decomposition	of	functionality	doesn’t	have	to	stop	at
the	server	side,	and	having	dedicated	frontend	teams	isn’t	inevitable.	I’ve	shared
a	number	of	different	ways	to	construct	a	user	interface	that	can	make	use	of
supporting	microservices	while	enabling	focused	end-to-end	delivery.
In	our	next	chapter,	we	move	from	the	technical	to	the	people	side	of	things
--- PAGE 602 ---
when	we	explore	in	greater	detail	the	interplay	of	microservices	and
organizational	
structures
.
1
	Matthew	Skelton	and	Manuel	Pais,	
Team	Topologies
	(Portland,	OR:	IT	Revolution,	2019).
2
	As	Charity	Majors	says,	“You’re	not	a	full	stack	developer	unless	you	build	the	chips.”
3
	Cam	Jackson,	“Micro	Frontends,”	
martinfowler.com,	June	19,	2019,	
https://oreil.ly/U3K40
.
4
	I’m	looking	at	you,	
Sydney	Morning	Herald
!
5
	I	hope	it	goes	without	saying	that	I	am	not	a	lawyer,	but	should	you	wish	to	look	at	the	legislation
that	covers	this	in	the	UK,	it’s	the	Equality	Act	2010,	specifically	section	20.	The	W3C	also	has	a
good	overview	of	accessibility	guidelines
.
6
	See	the	article	
“BFF	@	SoundCloud”
	by	Lukasz	Plotnicki	for	a	great	overview	of	how	SoundCloud
uses	the	BFF	pattern.
7
	Stewart	has	in	turn	credited	Phil	Calçado	and	Mustafa	Sezgin	for	this	recommendation.
--- PAGE 603 ---
Chapter	15.	
Organizational
Structures
While	much	of	the	book	so	far	has	focused	on	the	technical	challenges	in
moving	toward	a	fine-grained	architecture,	we’ve	also	looked	at	the	interplay
between	our	microservice	architecture	and	how	we	organize	our	teams.	In
“Toward	Stream-Aligned	Teams”
,	we	looked	at	the	concept	of	stream-aligned
teams,	which	have	end-to-end	responsibility	for	delivery	of	user-facing
functionality,	and	at	how	microservices	can	help	make	such	team	structures	a
reality.
We	now	need	to	flesh	out	these	ideas	and	look	at	other	organizational
considerations.	As	we’ll	see,	if	you	want	to	get	the	most	out	of	microservices,
you	ignore	your	company’s	organization	chart	at	your	peril!
Loosely	Coupled	Organizations
Throughout
	the	book,	I’ve	made	the	case	for	a	loosely	coupled	architecture	and
argued	that	alignment	with	more	autonomous,	loosely	coupled,	stream-aligned
teams	is	likely	going	to	deliver	the	best	outcomes.	A	shift	to	a	microservice
architecture	without	a	shift	in	organizational	structure	will	blunt	the	usefulness
of	microservices—you	may	end	up	paying	the	(considerable)	cost	for	the
architectural	change,	without	getting	the	return	on	your	investment.	I’ve	written
generally	about	the	need	to	reduce	coordination	between	teams	to	help	speed	up
delivery,	which	in	turn	enables	teams	to	make	more	decisions	for	themselves.
These	are	ideas	we’ll	explore	more	fully	in	this	chapter,	and	we’ll	flesh	out	some
of	these	organizational	and	behavioral	shifts	that	are	required,	but	before	that,	I
think	it’s	important	to	share	my	vision	for	what	a	loosely	coupled	organization
looks	like.
In	their	book	
Accelerate
,
	Nicole	Forsgren,	Jez	Humble,	and	Gene	Kim	looked
at	the	characteristics	of	autonomous,	loosely	coupled	teams	to	better	understand
which	behaviors	are	most	important	to	achieving	optimum	performance.
1
--- PAGE 604 ---
According	to	the	authors,	what	is	key	is	whether	teams	can:
Make	large-scale	changes	to	the	design	of	their	system	without	the
permission	of	somebody	outside	the	team
Make	large-scale	changes	to	the	design	of	their	system	without
depending	on	other	teams	to	make	changes	in	their	systems	or
creating	significant	work	for	other	teams
Complete	their	work	without	communicating	and	coordinating	with
people	outside	their	team
Deploy	and	release	their	product	or	service	on	demand,	regardless	of
other	services	it	depends	upon
Do	most	of	their	testing	on	demand,	without	requiring	an	integrated
test	environment
Perform	deployments	during	normal	business	hours	with	negligible
downtime
The
	stream-aligned	team,	a	concept	we	first	encountered	in	
Chapter	1
,	aligns
with	this	vision	for	a	loosely	coupled	organization.	If	you	are	trying	to	move
toward	a	stream-aligned	team	structure,	these	characteristics	make	for	a	fantastic
checklist	to	ensure	you	are	going	in	the	right	direction.
Some
	of	these	characteristics	look	more	technical	in	nature—for	example,	being
able	to	deploy	during	normal	business	hours	could	be	enabled	through	an
architecture	that	supports	zero-downtime	deployments.	But	all	of	these	in	fact
require	a	behavioral	change.	To	allow	teams	to	have	a	fuller	sense	of	ownership
around	their	systems,	a	move	away	from	centralized	control	is	required,
including	how	architectural	decision	making	is	done	(something	we	explore	in
Chapter	16
).	Fundamentally,	achieving	loosely	coupled	organizational	structures
requires	that	power	and	accountability	are	
decentralized
.
The	majority	of	this	chapter	will	discuss	how	we	make	this	all	work,	looking	at
team	sizes,	types	of	ownership	models,	the	role	of	the	platform,	and	more.	There
are	a	host	of	changes	you	can	consider	making	to	move	your	organization	in	the
right	direction.
Before	all	that,	though,	let’s	explore	the	interplay	between	organization	and
--- PAGE 605 ---
architecture	a	bit	more.
Conway’s	Law
Our
	industry	is	young	and	seems	to	be	constantly	reinventing	itself.	And	yet	a
few	key	“laws”	have	stood	the	test	of	time.	Moore’s	law,	for	example,	states	that
the	density	of	transistors	on	integrated	circuits	doubles	every	two	years,	and	it
has	proved	to	be	uncannily	accurate	(although	that	trend	has	been	slowing).	One
law	that	I	have	found	to	be	almost	universally	true,	and	to	be	far	more	useful	in
my	day-to-day	work,	is	Conway’s	law.
Melvin	Conway’s	paper	“How	Do	Committees	Invent?,”	published	in
Datamation
	magazine	in	April	1968,	observed	that:
Any	organization	that	designs	a	system	(defined	more	broadly	here	than	just
information	systems)	will	inevitably	produce	a	design	whose	structure	is	a
copy	of	the	organization’s	communication	structure.
This	statement	is	often	quoted,	in	various	forms,	as	Conway’s	law.	Eric	S.
Raymond	summarized	this	phenomenon	in	
The	New	Hacker’s	Dictionary
	(MIT
Press)	by	stating,	“If	you	have	four	groups	working	on	a	compiler,	you’ll	get	a	4-
pass	compiler.”
Conway’s	law	shows	us	that	a	loosely	coupled	organization	results	in	a	loosely
coupled	architecture	(and	vice	versa),	reinforcing	the	idea	that	hoping	to	gain	the
benefits	of	a	loosely	coupled	microservice	architecture	will	be	problematic
without	also	considering	the	organization	building	the	software.
Evidence
The	story	goes	that	when	Melvin	Conway	submitted	his	paper	on	this	topic	to
the	
Harvard	Business	Review
,	the	magazine	rejected	it,	claiming	he	hadn’t
proved	his	thesis.	I’ve	seen	his	theory	borne	out	in	so	many	different	situations
that	I’ve	accepted	it	as	true.	But	you	don’t	have	to	take	my	word	for	it:	since
Conway’s	original	submission,	a	lot	of	work	has	been	done	in	this	area.	A
number	of	studies	have	been	carried	out	to	explore	the	interrelation	of
organizational	structure	and	the	systems	they	
create.