
---PAGE 1---
KA / BG - GPO/ 2515 /WPP-47/ 2009 - 2011 
 
 
∞¬Òûª∞ «Ò∏Â√¿Ê  
C¢üPÀÈvÀªÁV ¥ÀæPÀn¸À¯ÁzÀÄzÀÄ  
«±ÉÃµÀ ¥ÀwæPÉ 
¨sÁUÀ – IV-A ¨ÉAUÀ¼ÀÆgÀÄ, ¸ÉÆÃªÀÄªÁgÀÀ, ªÉÄÃ 4, 2009 (ªÉÊ±ÁR 14, ±ÀP À ªÀµÀð 1931)  £ÀA. 271  
  
Revenue Secretariat 
 
NOTIFICATION 
 
No. RD 380 MUNOMU 2008, BANGALORE, Dated: 8 th  April, 2009 
 
              In exercise of the powers conferred u nder section 10 and section 68 of the Karnataka 
Stamp Act,1957 (Karnataka Act, 34 of 1957), the Gov ernment of Karnataka  hereby makes the 
following rules namely:- 
RULES 
CHAPTER- I – Preliminary 
           1. Title and commencement :- 1)  These Rules may be called “The Karnataka Stamp 
(Payment of Duty by Means of e-stamping) Rules, 200 9. 
 
           2) They shall come into force from the date of publ ication in the official Gazette.  
  
          2. Definitions:- In these rules unless the context otherwise require s:- 
   
 (a)  “Act”  means the Karnataka Stamp Act. 1957 ( Karnataka Ac t no. 34 of 
1957). 
 
 (b)  “Agreement”  means the agreement executed under Rule 6:- 
 
 (c)  “Appointing authority ” means the Inspector General of Registration 
appointed under section 3(1) of the Registration Ac t, 1908 and includes 
the Chief Controlling Revenue Authority under the K arnataka Stamp Act 
1957. 
 
 (d)  Approved Intermediary” / “Authorised Collection Center ” / 
“Authorised Stamping Centre” shall mean and include an agent 
appointed by the Central Record Keeping Agency, wit h prior approval of 
the Chief Controlling Revenue Authority to act as a n intermediary 
between the Central Record Keeping Agency, and the Stamp duty payer 
for collection of Stamp duty; and for issuing ‘e’ s tamp certificates. 
 
 (e)  “Central Record Keeping Agency ” means and includes an agency for 
computerization of stamp duty administration system  appointed under 
Rule-4. 
 

---PAGE 2---
 2 
 (f)  “Department ” means the department of Stamps and Registration o f the 
Government of Karnataka. 
 
 
 (g)  “Depository Services” means and includes depository related   services 
rendered in de-mat account, trading account in resp ect of marketable 
securities, and other auxiliary services 
 
 
 (h)  “e-Stamp ” means an electronically generated impression on p aper to 
denote the payment of Stamp duty, by Central Record  Keeping Agency.  
 (i)  “Government ” means the Government of Karnataka 
 
 (j)  “Grievance Redressal Officer”  means and includes the Deputy 
Commissioner of Stamps or any other officer not bel ow the rank of 
Assistant Commissioner of stamps, authorised by the  Chief Controlling 
Revenue Authority, to be Grievance Redressal Office r.. 
 
 (k)  “State ” means the State of Karnataka 
 
 (l)  “Stamp Duty” means the duty payable under the Act.   
 
          The words not defined in these rules shal l have the same meaning as assigned to them 
in the Karnataka Stamp Act 1957 and the Registratio n Act 1908 (Central Act 16 of 1908) and 
the rules framed thereunder. 
 
CHAPTER-II 
 
Central Record Keeping Agency 
 
         3. Eligibility for appointment as Central Record Keeping Agency.- Any Public 
Financial Institution, Scheduled Bank, Body Corpora te engaged in providing depository services 
appointed by Central Government or recognized by St ate Government or any Body Corporate 
where not less than 51 percent of equity capital is  held by any of the entities mentioned above -
either solely or in consortium shall be eligible fo r appointment as Central Record Keeping 
Agency . 
 
         4. Appointment of Central Record Keeping A gency.- The Appointing Authority shall 
appoint by notification an agency to function as Ce ntral Record Keeping Agency for the State or 
for the specified districts or places in the State from time to time, by adopting any of the 
following orders of preference namely:-  
 
             (a) on the basis of recommendations, i f any, of the Central Government regarding 
appointment of Central Record Keeping Agency, issue d from time to time; and in case such 
recommendation is not available; 
 
             (b) by inviting technical and commerci al bids through a duly constituted expert 
selection committee, by the Appointing Authority.         
   
         5. Term of appointment.- The  term of appointment of the Central Record Keep ing 
Agency may be for five years or such period as may be decided by the Appointing Authority.  
   
         6. Agreement, Undertaking and Indemnity Bo nd.- (1) The Central Record Keeping 
Agency shall execute an Agreement in FORM 1 appende d to these Rules; 
 
         (2) The terms and conditions of the Agreem ent in Form-1 may be modified by mutual 
consent of both the parties to it. 
 
         (3) The Central Record Keeping Agency shal l execute an “Undertaking and Indemnity 
Bond” in FORM-2  

---PAGE 3---
 3 
         7.  Termination of appointment of Central Record Agency:- (1) The appointment of 
the Central Record Keeping Agency may be terminated  by the appointing authority before the 
agreed term of appointment, on the ground of any br each of obligation or term of agreement or 
financial irregularity or for any other sufficient reason such termination is justified according to 
the appointing authority. 
          
        (2) The decision to terminate the appointme nt under sub rule (1) shall be made- 
 
 (a)  after the Central Record Keeping Agency has been gi ven one month’s notice 
specifying the details of grounds for such terminat ion and, 
 
 (b)  has been given a reasonable opportunity of being he ard. 
 
 
         (3) The appointing authority, if he is of the opinion that the provisions of the Karnataka 
Stamp Act, 1957 have been violated, after following  the procedure under the sub-rule (2), may 
also impose a penalty in accordance with the provis ions of chapter VII of the said Act. 
 
          8. Renewal  of appointment.- 1)  The application for renewal of appointment of the 
Central Record Keeping Agency will be made to the A ppointing Authority at least three months 
before the expiry of the running term of appointmen t, 
           
         (2) The appointing authority before taking  decision on the application may call for any 
information or record from the concerned offices or  Central Record Keeping Agency or 
Authorised Collection Centre or any other person /i nstitution/ authority, constituted under any 
law for the time being in force; 
 
         (3) The appointing authority, if satisfied  may renew the term of appointment, made under 
rule 4. 
 
         (4) In the event of the appointing authori ty deciding to renew the appointment, a fresh 
Agreement in Form 1 and “Undertaking and Indemnity Bond” in Form 2, shall be executed by 
the Central Record Keeping Agency 
 
         (5) The appointing authority, may  refuse the renewal of term of appointment  
             
 
CHAPTER - III 
Duties of the Central Record Keeping Agency 
 
         9. Duties of Central Record Keeping Agency ,- The Central Record Keeping Agency shall 
be responsible for,- 
 
 (a)  Providing software infrastructure, in consultation with the appointing 
authority, (including its connectivity with the mai n server), in specified 
districts or places such as the offices of sub-regi strars, District Registrars 
/Deputy Commissioners of Stamps Authorised Collecti on Centers (the 
point of contact for payment of Stamp duty) and at other places in the 
State, as specified from time to time by the Appoin ting Authority . 
 
 
 (b)  Providing Training to the identified manpower/ pers onnel of the 
department of Stamps and Registration; 
 
 (c)  Facilitating selection of Authorised Collection Cen tres for, collection of 
Stamp duty and issuing e-stamp certificate. 
 
 
 (d)  Coordinating between the Central Server / Authorise d Collection Centres 
(banks, etc.) and the offices of the Sub-Registrar,  District Registrar/Deputy 
Commissioner of Stamps, or any other office or plac e in the state, as 
specified from time to time, by the Appointing Auth ority.  

---PAGE 4---
 4 
 (e)  Collecting  Stamp duty and remitting it to the pres cribed Head of  Account 
of the State in accordance with these rules. 
 
 (f)  Preparing and providing various reports as required  under these rules and 
as directed by the Appointing Authority from time t o time. 
 
           10.  Commission / Discount allowable to the Central Reco rd Keeping Agency.- 1)  
The Central Record Keeping Agency  will be entitled  to such agreed percentage of discount / 
commission on the amount of Stamp duty collected by  Approved Intermediaries / Authorised 
Collection Centres, not exceeding 0.65 percentage a s may be specified in the terms of the 
Agreement 
 
          (2)  The Appointing Authority may allow the discount / c ommission payable to Central 
Record Keeping Agency, only after deducting from th e discount / commission the compulsory 
duties/taxes payable to the central/state Governmen t. 
 
 
           11.  Specification of software to be used by Central Rec ord Keeping Agency.- The 
Central Record Keeping Agency, in consultation with  the Appointing Authority, shall design and 
use such software, to indicate the following minimu m details on the e-Stamp Certificate, and 
also for other requirements. 
a.  Distinguished serial number /Unique identification number of the e-stamp Certificate so 
that it is not repeated on any other e-stamp certif icate during the lifetime of the  
e-stamping system,  
b.  Date and time of issue of the e-stamp certificate, 
c.  Amount of Stamp duty paid through the e-stamp certi ficate, in words and figures, 
d.  Name and address of the purchaser /authorized perso n of the e-stamp certificate, 
e.  Names of the parties to the instrument, 
f.  Brief description of the instrument on which the St amp duty is intended to be paid, 
g.  Brief description of the property which is subject matter of the instrument, 
h.  User- id of the official issuing the e-stamp certif icate. 
i.  Code and location of the ‘e-stamp certificate issui ng branch’ of the Central Record 
Keeping Agency or  Authorized Collection Centre/App roved Intermediary .  
j.  Any other distinguishing mark of the e-stamp certif icate e.g. bar code/security code, 
k.  Space for signature and seal of the ‘e-stamp certif icate issuing officer/ authorized 
signatory’ of the Central Record Keeping Agency or  Authorized Collection 
Centre/Approved Intermediary .  
l.  Availability of facility to the sub-registrar / Dis trict Registrar (Deputy Commissioner of 
Stamps) to disable/lock the e-stamp certificate, to  prevent the repeated use of any e-
stamp certificate. 
m.  Facility to cancel the ‘spoiled/ unused or not requ ired for use’  e-stamp certificate, 
n.  Providing for passwords and codes to the designated /authorized officials of the 
department to search and view any e-stamp Certifica te and to access Management 
Information System and Decision Support System  rep orts, 
o.  Availability of details of the issued e-stamp Certi ficate on the e-stamping Server 
maintained by the Central Record Keeping Agency, 
p.  Availability of  different transaction details and reports relating to e-stamping, as 
mentioned in rule 44 on the website of the Central Record Keeping Agency which will be 
accessible to the officers designated/authorized by  the Appointing Authority. 
 
 
 

---PAGE 5---
 5 
CHAPTER – IV 
 
Authorized Collection Centers (ACCs) 
 
 
            12.  Appointment of Authorized Collection Center or Appr oved 
Intermediary/Authorized stamping center.  - The Central Record Keeping Agency shall 
appoint Authorized Collection Centers / Approved In termediaries/Authorized stamping center, 
with the prior approval of the Appointing Authority , to act as an intermediary between the 
Central Record Keeping Agency and the Stamp duty pa yer for collection of Stamp duty and for 
issuing ‘e’ stamp certificate. 
 
 
           13. Eligibility for appointment of Autho rized Collection Center,- Any  Scheduled 
Bank,  Financial Institution or undertaking control led by Central or State Government Post 
Offices or such other agencies as approved by the A ppointing authority  shall be eligible  for 
appointment as Authorized Collection Centre / Appro ved Intermediary/ Authorized stamping 
center,  
           14. Central Record Keeping Agency to col lect Stamp duty,- All the offices / branches 
of the Central Record Keeping Agency or Authorized Collection Centers authorized in this behalf 
by the Appointing Authority, shall be entitled to c ollect the amount of Stamp duty from the 
Stamp duty payer. in districts / places  as specifi ed  by the Appointing Authority from time to 
time.  
 
           15. Infrastructure.- The  Approved Intermediaries/  Authorised Collection Centers shall 
be equipped with the required computer systems, pri nters, internet connectivity and other 
related infrastructure which are necessary to imple ment the e-stamping system as specified by 
the Central Record Keeping Agency from time to time  in consultation with the Appointing 
Authority. 
 
 
           16.  Cost of Infrastructure,- The cost of providing equipment and infrastructure 
referred to in rule (15) shall be borne by the conc erned Approved Intermediaries/Authorised 
Collection Centers/ Central Record Keeping Agency a s the case may be. 
 
   
         17. Government  to provide necessary hardware and infrastructure in  the offices of 
the department,-  The Government may provide available necessary Har dware and 
infrastructure at the offices of the Inspector Gene ral of Registration and Commissioner of 
Stamps, / Chief Controlling Revenue Authority, Sub- Registrars / District Registrars / Deputy 
Commissioner of Stamps or such other offices, autho rised in this behalf, which would include a 
Personal Computer, printer, bar code scanner, inter net connection as required for implementing 
the e-stamping system. 
 
 
          18.  Termination of agency of Authorised Collection Cent re,- The Appointing 
Authority  may at any time, for reasons to be recor ded in writing, direct the Central Record 
Keeping Agency to terminate the agency of any Autho rized Collection Centre and upon such 
direction, the Central Record Keeping Agency shall terminate the agency of such Authorized 
Collection Centre. 
 
 
 
CHAPTER PART – V 
 
Remittance of the Stamp duty to Government account 
 
 
           19. Central Record Keeping Agency to Rem it the Stamp duty (less, the prescribed 
discount/commission) to Government account on next working day,-  1) The Central 
Record Keeping Agency shall be responsible to remit  the consolidated amount of Stamp duty 
collected by its offices/ branches and by its Autho rised Collection Centres to  “ 0030-02-103-
0-01  Non – Judicial” head of account or any other notif ied head of account of the State, in the 
manner prescribed hereunder.  

---PAGE 6---
 6 
 
                          (i) In case of stamp duty , collected by way of cash /Real Time Gross Settlem ent 
/ Electronic Clearance System  or any other mode of  electronic transfer of funds, the Central 
Record Keeping Agency shall remit the consolidated amount of stamp duty (less, the prescribed 
discount/commission)  to the prescribed head of acc ount of the state, not later than the closing 
of the next working day, after the day of such coll ection of the amount of stamp duty.  
 
                         (ii) In case of stamp duty , collected by way of pay order  / Demand draft, th e 
Central Record Keeping Agency shall remit the conso lidated amount of stamp duty (less, the 
prescribed discount/commission) to the prescribed h ead of account of the state, not later than 
the closing of the second working day, after the  d ay of such collection of the amount of stamp 
duty. 
 
 
 
 
           (2) The method of remittance of the amou nt of Stamp duty by the Central Record 
Keeping Agency to the prescribed head account of th e State will be through electronic clearing 
system, Challan or otherwise as may be directed in writing by the Appointing Authority from 
time to time 
 
 
          (3) The remittances referred to in this r ule shall be made to the Government authorized 
Treasury Banks.  And the Central Record Keeping Age ncy shall maintain the daily account of 
such remittances in the Register as  prescribed in FORM-6  
 
 
CHAPTER – VI 
 
Procedure for Issue of e-stamp certificate 
 
           20.  Application for e-stamp certificate.- Any person paying Stamp duty may approach 
any of the Approved Intermediaries;/ Authorised Col lection Centres and furnish the requisite 
details in FORM-3  along with the payment of Stamp duty amount, for g etting the e-stamp 
certificate 
 
           21.  Mode of payment of Stamp duty.- 1) The payment for purchase of e-stamp 
certificate may be made by means of cash, pay order , Bank draft, Electronic Clearing System, 
Real Time Gross Settlement  or by any other mode of  transferring funds as authorized  by the 
Appointing Authority. . 
 
          (2) The Authorized Collection Center  sha ll issue e-stamp certificate for the amount 
received through any of the modes of payments menti oned in sub-rule 1 
 
          (3) The Authorized Collection Center / Ce ntral Record Keeping Agency shall keep a daily 
account of e-stamp certificates issued in a Registe r to be maintianed by them as prescribed in 
FORM-5 
 
 
          22.  Issue of e-stamp certificate.-  1) The Authorised official of the Approved 
Intermediary shall, on the payment made under rule 21, enter the requisite information and 
details as provided by the applicant in the applica tion    Form- 3 in the computer system, get 
the correctness of such entered details verified by  the applicant, take his signature on the 
application as proof of verification, download the e-stamp certificate (vide Annexure-A1), take 
out its print, sign with date and affix his officia l seal on the print- out and issue the e-stamp 
certificate to the applicant. 
         
          (2) The ink to be used in the e-stamp Cer tificate printer must be non- washable 
permanent black.   

---PAGE 7---
 7 
           23.  Signature and seal on e-stamp certificate, Size of paper and only Regular 
employee to be designated as issuing officer,- 1) The signature and seal showing name and 
designation  of the issuing officer and name and ad dress of the branch of Approved 
Intermediary shall be made in black ink 
 
           (2) The e-stamp Certificate shall be pri nted on 80 GSM quality paper of the size 210 
Mms. X 297 Mms. with a margin of 3.5 Cms. on the le ft and 1.5 Cms. on the right side of the 
page  or such other appropriate margins as may be d etermined by the Appointing Authority 
 
           (3) The Approved Intermediary / Authoris ed Collection Centre  shall ensure that the 
person who has been authorised to issue e-stamp Cer tificate, is a regular full time employee of 
the Approved Intermediary  / Authorised Collection Centre, having suitable crede ntials.  
 
 
           24. Details of e-stamp Certificate to be  on website.- The details of the issued e-stamp 
Certificate shall be made available on the e-stampi ng Server maintained by the Central Record 
Keeping Agency and shall be accessible to any perso n authorized by the Appointing Authority in 
this behalf, including the Sub Registrar, District Registrar/Deputy Commissioner of Stamps 
holding a valid code or password which shall be pro vided by the Central Record Keeping 
Agency; 
 
          
           25.  Payment of additional Stamp duty.- If for any reason a person, who has an  
e-stamp Certificate of certain denomination issued for a document, needs to pay an additional 
Stamp duty on the same document, he may make an app lication in the prescribed format 
(FORM-3) along with the payment of such required am ount of additional Stamp duty to the 
Approved Intermediary/ Authorized collection Center , in accordance with the provisions of the 
Act. 
 
 
           26. Issue of e-stamp Certificate for add itional Stamp duty.- 1)  The Approved 
Intermediary shall issue e-stamp Certificate for su ch additional Stamp duty on separate sheet of 
paper in the same way as laid down in rules 21 to 2 4 
 
          (2) The party to an instrument may, at hi s discretion, use impressed stamp(s) together 
with the e-stamp Certificate to pay stamp duty char geable on such instrument under the Act. 
The use of one type of stamp shall not exclude the use of other type of stamp in the same 
instrument 
 
 
           27.  Use of e-stamp certificate.-  (1) Every instrument written upon paper stamped 
with an  e-stamp Certificate shall be written in su ch manner that the e-stamp Certificate may 
appear on the face of the instrument, and a portion  of the Instrument written below the  “e-
stamp” certificate, so that the ‘e’ Stamp Certifica te can not be used for or applied to any other 
instrument 
 
           (2)  No second Instrument chargeable wit h duty shall be written upon or using the ‘e’-
stamp certificate, upon which or using the same, an  Instrument chargeable with duty has 
already been written 
 
           (3) Every instrument written in contrave ntion of sub-rule (1) and (2) shall be deemed to 
be unstamped 
 
           28.  The distinguished unique identification number of t he e-stamp Certificate to 
be written on each page of the instrument.- The distinguished unique identification number 
of the e-stamp Certificate shall be written or type d at the top center of each page of the 
instrument 
 
           29.  Registering officer to verify the details of ‘e’-st amp certificate.- The          Sub-
registrar, District Registrar/Deputy Commissioner o f Stamps shall verify the details of the e-
stamp Certificate used in an instrument by entering  its distinguishing unique identification  
number in the computer system by accessing the rele vant website of the Central Record 
Keeping Agency by using the code/ pass word provide d by the Central Record Keeping Agency 
and verify the details of the certificate with the details displayed on the system.  

---PAGE 8---
 8 
           30.  Sub-Registrar / District Registrar to disable the d istinguishing serial number 
of the e - stamp certificate.- After verifying the details, the sub-registrar, Dis trict 
Registrar/Deputy Commissioner of Stamps shall disab le or lock the distinguishing unique 
identification number of the e-stamp Certificate to  prevent repeated use of such e-stamp 
certificate.  
 
CHAPTER - VII 
Cancellation and refund of e-stamps 
 
            31 . Procedure for refund of spoiled/ unused/ not requir ed for use e-stamp 
certificate.- The State Government / Chief Controlling Revenue Au thority / Deputy  
Commissioner of stamps may, on an application in th e prescribed format (Form-4) accompanied 
with the original ‘spoiled or misused unused or not  required for use  e-stamp certificate’, if 
satisfied as to the facts & circumstances of the ca se,  make allowance for such e-stamp 
Certificate in accordance with the provisions of se ctions 47 to 52-A  contained in Chapter V of 
‘the Act’ and the rules 16 & 17 of the Karnataka St amp Rules, 1958, framed under the Act. 
 
 
           32.  The Deputy Commissioner of Stamps to cancel the e-s tamp certificate  and 
refund its amount. 1) The Deputy Commissioner of Stamps after such ver ification shall cancel 
the verified e-stamp Certificate, endorse the fact of cancellation on the e-stamp Certificate with 
his signature and seal and refund the amount as  re quired in the said Act and disable or lock 
such e-stamp certificate.  
 
           (2) The Deputy Commissioner of Stamps sh all maintain a record of such cancelled  
e-stamp Certificates in his office and send the det ails of the same to the Chief Controlling 
Revenue Authority, in the first week of every month . 
 
           (3) The refund, if any, under sub-rule ( 1) shall be made by the Deputy Commissioner of 
Stamps only by means of Treasury cheque drawn in fa vour of the person in whose name the  
e-stamp Certificate was issued. 
 
 
CHAPTER - VIII 
Inspections, audit and appraisal of the performance  of the system  
 
           33.  Who may inspect.- 1) The Deputy Commissioner of Stamps or any authori zed officer 
of the department and any private or public sector technical cum audit expert/ agency duly 
authorised by the Chief Controlling Revenue Authori ty in this behalf may inspect all or any of 
the branches / offices of the Central Record Keepin g Agency and Approved Intermediaries 
/Authorized Collection Center located within its ju risdiction as prescribed in the  “Schedule of 
Inspections” vide Annexure- 1.  
 
           (2) The Chief Controlling Revenue Author ity may, however, at any time on receipt of a 
complaint or  suo motu , direct any official of the department to inspect any branch /office of the 
Central Record Keeping Agency or Approved Intermedi aries/ Authorized Collection Centers and 
to submit report, besides the regular inspections m entioned in sub-rule (1). 
 
           (3) The Accountant General Karnataka may  also conduct annual audit of the receipts 
and remittances made by the Central Record Keeping Agency. 
 
           34. Schedule of Inspections and audit.- All or any of the  branches/ offices of the 
Central Record Keeping Agency  and Approved Interme diaries in the State may be inspected and 
audited, as far as possible, according to the Sched ule of Inspections referred to in rule 33 .  
 
           35.  Central Record Keeping Agency / Authorised Collecti on Centre  bound to 
provide information.-  During such inspection, the inspecting officer or the expert/ agency may 
require the Officer in-charge of such branch/office  to provide any information on soft and/or 
hard copy of any electronic or digital record with regard to the collection and remittance of 

---PAGE 9---
 9 
Stamp duty relating to any period and the concerned  Central Record Keeping Agency or 
Approved Intermediary shall be bound to provide suc h information. 
 
 
           36.  Inspection report.- The  inspecting officer  shall within one week and the  technical 
cum audit expert/ agency shall within two weeks, fr om the date of inspection, submit his 
inspection report to the Appointing Authority /Chie f Controlling Revenue Authority. 
 
           37.  Chief Controlling Revenue Authority / Appointing Au thority to take 
appropriate action.- The Chief Controlling Revenue Authority on receipt of such inspection 
report may take appropriate action including imposi tion of penalty in accordance with Chapter 
VII of the Act  and or termination of appointment o f Central Record Keeping Agency or the 
Authorised Collection Centre if so warranted by the  circumstances, after giving an opportunity 
of being heard . 
 
CHAPTER – IX 
 
Penalty for omissions and violations 
 
           38. Penalty for delay in remittance to g overnment account.- In case the Central 
Record Keeping Agency fails to remit the amount of Stamp duty collected within the period as 
stipulated in rule 19, the Central Record Keeping A gency shall be liable, as specified in the 
terms of the agreement (in form-1) being entered in to between the Chief Controlling Revenue 
Authority and the Central Record Keeping Agency,  t o pay, along with the collected amount of 
Stamp duty, an interest amount calculated @ 12 % pe r annum on the amount of stamp duty so 
collected, for the period of delay in day(s). Any p art of a day will be treated as one day for the 
purpose of such calculation.  
 
           39.  Resolve of disputes and place for resolving dispute s.-In case of any dispute on 
any issue, the decision of the Appointing Authority  shall be final and the place for resolving 
such disputes  shall be at Bangalore. 
 
 
CHAPTER - X – Arbitration 
Public Grievance redressal system  
 
           40.  Grievance Redressal Officers.- 1) The Appointing Authority may designate District 
Registrar / Deputy Commissioner of Stamps or any ot her officers of the department not below 
the rank of Assistant Commissioner of Stamps to be ‘Grievance Redressal Officers’ to enquire 
into the complaints received against the misconduct  or irregularities of the Central Record 
Keeping Agency or its Authorised Collection Centres  or any other official related with the 
implementation of the e-stamping system. 
 
          (2) These Grievance Redressal officers wi ll be allocated specified districts/places for 
entertaining the complaints.  
           
          41.  Complaint to Grievance Redressal officer.- Any person who has any grievance 
against the services of the Central Record Keeping Agency or any of its Authorised Collection 
Centre or any other official related with the imple mentation of these rules, may make a 
complaint to the concerned Grievance Redressal offi cer.   
 
           42.  Opportunity of being heard.- The Grievance Redressal officer will conduct a fair  
enquiry with regard to such complaints, by giving a n opportunity of being heard to the parties 
concerned; and redress the grievance suitably; and submit the enquiry report to the Appointing 
Authority. 
            
           43.  Appointing Authority / Chief Controlling Revenue Au thority  to take 
appropriate action on enquiry reports.- On the basis of the enquiry report, the Appointing 
Authority may take appropriate action under these r ules against the Central Record Keeping 
Agency/Authorized Collection Centre or may make sui table recommendation to the employer of 
the concerned official for taking appropriate actio n.  

---PAGE 10---
 10  
CHAPTER – XI 
 
Management Information System (MIS)/ Decision Suppo rt System (DSS) 
 
           44. Central Record Keeping Agency to fur nish reports to the department.-  The 
Central Record Keeping Agency shall be responsible to furnish the following information reports 
to the Chief Controlling Revenue Authority and to a ny other officers specified in this behalf: 
 
 (i)  Audit reports; - tracking of all system based actio ns performed by users of 
branches/ offices of the Central Record Keeping Age ncy and the 
Authorised Collection Centers pertaining to any spe cified day or period. 
 
 (ii)  Payment reports;- total collection report of all br anches/offices of the 
Central Record Keeping Agency and the Authorised Co llection Centres 
pertaining to any specified day or period. 
 
 
 (iii)  Additional Stamp duty certificate reports;- for all  the branches/ offices of 
the Central Record Keeping Agency and Authorised Co llection Centres 
pertaining to any specified day or period 
 
 
 (iv)  Disabled (locked) e-stamp Certificate report; – rel ating to all the Offices of 
sub-registrars, District Registrars / Deputy commis sioners of Stamps or 
such places / districts of the state where this sys tem is in force, 
pertaining to any specified day or period 
 
 
 (v)  Remittance reports; – the state wise daily, weekly,  fortnightly and monthly 
or desired period details of the remittances made b y the Central Record 
Keeping Agency into the Government account.  
 
 
 (vi)  Report of cancelled e-stamp Certificates relating t o any period of all the 
districts. 
 
 
 (vii)  Any other report or information as may be required by the Chief 
Controlling Revenue Authority from time to time. 
 
Appendix 
Forms under these Rules- 
1.  Form-1-Agreement with Central Record Keeping Agency  -(see rule 6). 
2.  Form-2-Indemnity Bond by Central Record Keeping Age ncy -(see rule 6). 
3.  Form-3-Application for e-stamp-(see rule 20 & 25). 
4.  Form 4-Application for refund of Stamp duty-(see ru le 31). 
5.  Form 5-Register regarding daily postings of applica tions for e-stamp certificates  and  
e-stamp certificates issued; to be maintained by th e Authorized Collection Center/Central 
Record Keeping Agency.(See Rule 21(3)). 
6.  Form 6- Register regarding daily stamp duty collect ed and remitted to Government; to be 
maintained by the Central Record Keeping Agency.(Se e Rule 19(3)). 
Annexures- 
 
Annexure-1-Schedule of audit and inspections-(see r ule 33). 
Annexure-A Service Level Agreement (see Rule 6) 
Annexure-A1-“e”-stamp certificate” (see rule 22). 
 
 By order and in the name of the Governor of Karnata ka, 
 
T.K.RAMACHANDRA 
Under Secretary to Government 
Revenue Department 
(Stamps and Registration)  

---PAGE 11---
 11  
Annexure – 1 
 
SCHEDULE OF INSPECTIONS AND AUDIT 
OF THE CENTRAL RECORD KEEPING AGENCY AND THE AUTHOR ISED COLLECTION 
CENTRES 
(See Rule 33) 
 
Sl. 
No.  Name of the 
authority/ agency  Jurisdiction  Frequency of 
inspection  Points of inspection  Whom to 
submit the 
report  
1 Deputy 
Commissioner of 
Stamps / District 
Registrar  Within the 
registration 
District.  Bi-Monthly  Shall Verify the 
collections made by 
Central Record Keeping 
Agency / A uthorised  
Collection Centres  
and the e-Stamp 
certificates issued. 
 The Chief 
Controlling 
Revenue 
Authority in 
Karnataka, 
Bangalore.  
2 Assistant 
Commissioner of 
Stamps/Head 
Quarters 
Assistant to the 
District Registrar  within the 
Registration  
district  Monthly  Shall Verify the 
collection of stamp 
duty (from e-stamp 
certificates) of the 
Authorised  collection 
Centres with the 
remittance figures of 
the Central Record 
Keeping Agency  
 The Chief 
Controlling 
Revenue 
Authority in 
Karnataka, 
Bangalore  
3 Technical cum 
Financial Expert / 
Agency  Whole of the 
State  Quarterly  Shall Verify; 
 (i) the overall 
collections made by the 
Central Record Keeping 
Agency / the 
Authorised Collection    
Centers and verify the 
same with the 
remittances made by 
Central Record Keeping 
Agency to the 
Government Account;  
(ii) the  Technical 
Working and fairness 
of accounting of the e-
stamping system  The Chief 
Controlling 
Revenue 
Authority in 
Karnataka, 
Bangalore. 
 
 T.K. RAMACHANDRA 
Under Secretary to Government 
Revenue Department 
(Stamps and Registration)  
 

---PAGE 12---
 12  
Form  - 1 
(See Rule 6) 
AGREEMENT 
THIS AGREEMENT is entered on this ________ day of _ __________  200___.  
BETWEEN 
The Chief Controlling Revenue Authority, having his office at No. 720, 46 th  Cross, 8 th  Block, 
Jayanagar, Bangalore (hereinafter referred to as th e CCRA,  which expression shall include 
Government of Karnataka and his successors in offic e),   of the One Part,  
AND 
(. . . . . . . .name of the Central Record Keeping Agency. . . . . . . .) having their Registered 
office at … …  …  …  …  …  … …  …  …  …  …  and branch office at _____________________ _____ through  
Shri _______________ (hereinafter called “ CRA ”, which expression shall include its successors an d 
assigns, representatives) of the Other Part. 
“The CCRA  and “CRA” are together referred to as “t he Parties” and either of them as “the Party”. 
  WHEREAS, after due bidding process (… .name of the Company / SHCIL. . . . .) was 
selected to act as Central Record Keeping Agency (C RA) for the Computerized Stamp duty 
administration system (C-SDAS); and to devise a mechanism of electronic method of c ollection of 
Stamp duty  vide letter F.No. 16/1/20040CY1, Dated 28 th  December 2005 of Govt. of India.  
  AND WHEREAS the Government of India Ministry of Finance, Depart ment of Economic 
affairs in the said letter has also authorized  the CRA to  undertake various services in States 
against a payment of 0.65% (as commission/discount)  of the value of Stamp duty collected 
through e-stamping mechanism; 
  AND WHEREAS  pursuant to the said notification, (… .name of the Company / SHCIL. . . . .) 
has approached the Government for implementing the e-stamping mechanism in the State. 
  AND WHEREAS the State has approved and authorised (....name of the CRA Company/  . 
. . . . . )to be their CRA vide Government intimati on dated …  …  …  …  …  …  … for the proposed C-SDAS in 
the State on the terms and conditions specified in this Agreement.  
  AND WHEREAS  (… .name of the CRA Company/. . . . .) will develop  a system for the 
payment of Stamp duty by the client / ultimate user ,  with prior approval of the CCRA, through 
Approved Intermediaries hereinafter called Authoris ed Collection Centres (ACC’s). 
NOW IT IS HEREBY AGREED BY AND BETWEEN THE PARTIES AS FOLLOWS : 
1.  Appointment of (. . . . name of the Company. . . . .) as CRA :- 
1.1    The CCRA, hereby appoints (… .name of the Com pany… .) as its exclusive authorized 
CRA to undertake the following activities :  
(i) Creating need based infrastructure, hardware an d software and connectivity for 
facilitating its operations on the e-stamping proje ct, in the entire State. 
(ii) To facilitate selection of Approved Intermedia ries for the e-stamping and collection of 
Stamp duty. 
(iii) To act as a Co-ordinator between the office o f the CCRA, Sub-Registrars and District 
Registrars / Deputy Commissioner of Stamps and Appr oved Intermediaries. 
(iv) Collection of stamp duty and generation of E-s tamp Certificates through the computer 
systems.  

---PAGE 13---
 13  
(v) Effecting remittances of the collected amount o f Stamp duty to the State and 
reconciliation of accounts.  
 1.2. The Parties may by mutual consent modify or w ithdraw any of the scope of appointment 
or effect any changes therein depending upon the pu blic policy of the State and exigencies of 
business.  
2.  TERRITORY 
  The territory covered under this Agreement will b e the entire State or such lesser number 
of specified districts as may be specified by the C CRA. 
3.  Appointment of Approved Intermediaries i.e. ACC ’s : (…  name of the Company 
appointed as CRA… .)  shall appoint Approved Intermediaries on such term s as decided by 
(…  name of the Company appointed as CRA… .)  with prior approval of the CCRA. 
3.2  Amongst the Approved Intermediaries, the ACCs could  preferably be a scheduled bank, 
financial institution, post office, Insurance Regul atory Development Authority (IRDA) 
recognized insurance company or any / institution a s approved by the CCRA. 
3.3  All the offices of (…  name of the Company appointed as CRA… .)  in the State on need 
base will also do the collection of Stamp duty unde r intimation to the CCRA. 
3.4  All such Approved Intermediaries shall be equipped with the required computerization, 
laser printers, internet connectivity and other reg ular infrastructure to implement the  
e-stamping system. The cost of providing such equip ment will be borne by the concerned 
Approved Intermediaries. 
3.5  All such Approved Intermediaries will access the ma in server through internet by using an 
identification number and a confidential password. This Unique Identification Number 
and Password will be allotted by (…  name of the Company appointed as CRA. . .)  This 
password shall be kept confidential and the concern ed Approved Intermediaries will be 
required to change it immediately after its allotme nt to maintain the confidentiality. 
3.6 Approved Intermediaries will enter the requisit e information and details in the system and 
download a e-Stamp Certificate with the Distinguish ing serial number which will be 
attached to the document. The details of the e-Stam p Certificate will be available on the e-
stamping Server (e-ss.) . 
3.7 In providing the services under this Agreement,  the CCRA in consultation with (…  name of 
the Company appointed as CRA… .) may make rules or issue guidelines regarding the  
appointment of the Approved Intermediaries & other terms and conditions  
4.  EES / COMMISSION 
4.1     For the above services to be provided by (…  name of the Company appointed as CRA...) ,  
the (…  name of the Company appointed as CRA....)  shall be entitled from the State a 
commission/discount of 0.65 % of the Stamp duty col lected through e-stamping 
mechanism. (…  name of the Company appointed as CRA....) will deduct this commission 
towards their fees from the Stamp duty collection p rior to remitting the balance amount 
into the State Government Account. The Commission s o deducted shall be inclusive of the 
compulsory taxes / duties payable by the CRA to the  Central / State Government. 
5.  MODE OF REMITTANCE TO STATE GOVERNMENT 
5.1  The proposed e-stamping system will allow both coll ection and transfer of Stamp duty 
paid. 
5.2  The aforesaid remittances shall be effected only to  the designated account “0030-02-103-
0-01 Stamp Non-Judicial” of the Government through Real Time Gross Settlement 

---PAGE 14---
 14  
(RTGS), ECS, Challan, bank transfer or such other m ode as may be decided by the Parties 
from time to time. 
5.3  (…  name of the Company appointed as CRA… .)  shall be responsible for payment to the 
Government, of the amounts  which are collected tow ards the download of stamps 
through the Approved Intermediaries.  Such payment shall be made to the designated 
account “0030-02-103-0-01 Stamp Non-Judicial” of th e Government, in accordance with 
rule 19 of the Karnataka Stamp (payment of duty by means of e-stamping) rules 2009.  
5.4       The CRA undertakes that, in case, it fails to remit the amount of Stamp duty             
collected within the period as stipulated in rule 1 9 of the above said rules, the CRA shall 
be liable to   pay, along with the collected amount  of Stamp duty, an interest amount  
calculated @  12.00 % per annum on the amount of st amp duty so collected for the period 
of delay in day(s). Any part of  a day will be trea ted as one day for the purpose of such 
calculation; as per rule 38 of the said rules 
6.  PROPOSED SYSTEM 
6.1 Detailed structure of the proposed system, incl uding flow diagrams and salient features, 
schematic view of connectivity envisaged, systems a nd procedures to be followed by end 
users and format of proof of payment / certificate to be issued to client/ultimate users is 
given in the “Service Level Agreement” (SLA) which is attached as  Annexure ‘A’ to this 
Agreement. 
6.2  The CCRA will make available necessary Hardwar e and infrastructure at the office of the 
CCRA, offices of Sub-Registrars and District Regist rars / Deputy Commissioner of Stamps 
(or such other designated offices) which would incl ude a printer, PC, bar code scanner, 
internet connection, in consultation with the CRA (…  name of the Company appointed as 
CRA. . . . )  
6.3   The CRA shall design and develop such softwar e that the following minimum details are 
shown on the e-stamp Certificate – 
a.  Distinguished serial number /UIN(unique identificat ion number)of the e-stamp Certificate 
so that it is not repeated on any other e-stamp cer tificate during the lifetime of the e-
stamping system,  
b.  Date and time of issue of the e-stamp certificate, 
c.  Amount of Stamp duty paid through the e-stamp certi ficate, in words and figures, 
d.  Name and address of the purchaser /authorized perso n of the e-stamp certificate, 
e.  Names of the parties to the instrument, 
f.  Brief description of the instrument on which the St amp duty is intended to be paid, 
g.  Brief description of the property which is subject matter of the instrument, 
h.  User- id of the official issuing the e-stamp certif icate. 
i.  Code and location of the ‘e-stamp certificate issui ng branch’ of the Central Record Keeping 
Agency or  Authorized Collection Centre/Approved In termediary .  
j.  Any other distinguishing mark of the e-stamp certif icate e.g. bar code/security code, 
k.  Space for signature and seal of the ‘e-stamp certif icate issuing officer/ authorized 
signatory’ of the Central Record Keeping Agency or Authorized Collection Centre/ 
Approved Intermediary .  

---PAGE 15---
 15  
l.  Availability of facility to the sub-registrar / Dis trict Registrar (Deputy Commissioner of 
Stamps) to disable/lock the e-stamp certificate, to  prevent the repeated use of any e-
stamp certificate. 
m.  Facility to cancel the ‘spoiled/ unused or not requ ired for use’  e-stamp certificate, 
n.  Providing for passwords and codes to the designated /authorized officials of the 
department to search and view any e-stamp Certifica te and to access Management 
Information System and Decision Support System  rep orts, 
o.  Availability of details of the issued e-stamp Certi ficate on the e-stamping Server 
maintained by the Central Record Keeping Agency, 
p.  Availability of  different transaction details and reports relating to e-stamping, as 
mentioned in rule 44 on the website of the Central Record Keeping Agency which will be 
accessible to the officers designated/authorized by  the Appointing Authority. 
7.  COMPATIBILITY WITH THE REGISTRATION SYSTEM 
7.1  The Office of CCRA, Offices of Sub-Registrars and District Registrars / Deputy 
Commissioner of Stamps and such other offices as th e CCRA may authorise in this 
behalf, will have access to the Central Server thro ugh internet connectivity. 
7.2  The authorized officers (as mentioned in 7.1 a bove) of the State will have access to the e-
ss through internet using user id & password issued  by (…  name of the Company 
appointed as CRA… .) .  After login, such authorized officers will be ab le to view the e-
Stamp Certificates by accessing the e-ss. 
7.3    The offices of the Sub-Registrars, District Registrars / Deputy Commissioner of Stamps or 
such other offices authorised in this behalf, shall  ensure that the prescribed amount of 
Stamp duty on the documents has been paid for the t ransaction. After verification, the 
Registering officer by logging into the e-ss throug h user Id & password shall disable (lock) 
the e-Stamp Certificate on the  documents presented   for registration.     
8.  HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS :-  
8.1   The use of e-ss will warrant the use of the r equired configuration of computer system with 
requisite operating system and laser printers speci fied by (…  name of the Company 
appointed as CRA… .) with proper internet connectivity by the user. The configuration of 
the computer systems, internet connectivity, laser printers, barcode readers or any other 
Hardware infrastructure should meet the specificati ons of (…  name of the Company 
appointed as CRA… .) and which may be subject to change with prior intim ation to CCRA. 
9.  GENERAL OBLIGATIONS 
9.1  All payments for stamp duties made and receive d from all clients and/or Approved 
Intermediaries shall be recorded on a day- to- day basis by (…  name of the Company 
appointed as CRA… .) and in turn reported to the State in following and such other form 
as maybe determined in mutual consultation between the CCRA & (…  name of the 
Company appointed as CRA… .)  
(i)  Audit reports  - tracking of all system based actions performed b y users of branches/ 
offices of the CRA and the ACCs pertaining to any s pecified day or period. 
(ii)  Payment reports : Total collection of Stamp duty report of every bran ch/ office of the 
CRA and the ACC pertaining to any specified day or period. 
(iii)   Additional Stamp duty certificate reports  : for all or any of the branches/ offices of the 
CRA and ACCs pertaining to any specified day or per iod.   

---PAGE 16---
 16  
(iv)   Disabled e-stamp Certificate report  – relating to all or any of the sub-registrars / 
District registrars / Deputy Commissioner of Stamps  of such districts, where this system 
is in force, pertaining to any specified day or per iod.   
(v)   Remittance reports  - Daily, weekly, fortnightly and monthly or desire d period details of 
the remittances made by the CRA into the Government  account.. 
9.2  The CCRA shall set  up and provide information   that will enable the Approved 
Intermediaries or the client who is liable to pay S tamp duty to ascertain the exact amount 
of Stamp duty that is payable on a particular instr ument.  Further, the CCRA will also 
provide the necessary information with respect to t he amount of the Stamp duty to be 
paid for the documents pertaining to immovable prop erties on the basis of their details.  
Such information provided will be updated by the Go vernment/CCRA as per the 
Registration Act, 1908 (Act no. 16 of 1908) and the  Karnataka Stamp Act,1957 (Act no. 34 
of 1957) the current rules and regulations and amen dments carried out to them from time 
to time and a link  from the Government / CCRA’s si te to e-ss. Such information provided 
on e-ss will be for the guidance of clients/users a nd (…  name of the Company appointed 
as CRA. . . .) will not be responsible  for correctness of the inf ormation.   
9.3  The CCRA will be able to access the data through in ternet by using user id and password.  
9.4   (…  name of the Company appointed as CRA… .)  shall enable CCRA to extract the MIS and 
DSS reports as provided in para 9.1 above from the data captured on the e-ss via internet.    
9.5  The requirement of the MIS may  be further cry stallized and mutually agreed.  The CCRA 
will provide any changes to the master lists to (…  name of the Company appointed as 
CRA… .) for updating the information in e-stamping system f rom time to time. 
9.6  It will be the responsibility of the offices o f the Sub-Registrar, District Registrar / Deputy 
Commissioner of Stamps and such other officers as t he CCRA may decide, to verify about 
the authenticity of the e-Stamp Certificate and ade quacy of the Stamp duty paid.   
10.  TRAINING OF THE PERSONNEL AT THE REGISTRAR’S O FFICES AND OF THE STATE 
10.1   (…  name of the Company appointed as CRA… .)     shall provide suitable and adequate 
training, to such of the Government personnel as th e CCRA may nominate, on a train-the-
trainer mode, on the operation and the use of the s ystem. 
10.2   The training provided at the premises of the  State by SHCIL will be free of cost for the first 
time to the candidates suggested by the CCRA, which  may be upto to 10 or such other 
mutually agreed greater number of officials. 
10.3   (… … … … … … name of the Company appointed as CRA… .)    may assume that the trainees have 
the required skills, knowledge and pre-requisites t o follow the training on the Application. 
10.4   The training for the system shall be conduct ed at the place to be decided by the CCRA. 
CRA  shall provide one trainer to conduct the training over  a maximum period of one (1) 
week. For the avoidance of doubt, CCRA will be resp onsible for arranging and providing 
all the necessary facilities, equipment and premise s required for conducting the training.  
10.5   At periodic intervals to be mutually decided  by (…  name of the Company appointed as 
CRA… .) and the CCRA,  (…  name of the Company appointed as CRA… .) shall provide 
additional training on any up-gradation, modificati on to the system. (…  name of the 
Company appointed as CRA… .) may also provide refreshers courses to the various 
participants if required by the CCRA.  
10.6   Any training to the Approved Intermediary or  end user shall be charged separately to the 
Approved Intermediary by (…  name of the Company appointed as CRA. . . .) . 

---PAGE 17---
 17  
11.   TERM  
11.1   This Agreement shall be initially for a peri od of 5 years from the effective date referred 
below and thereafter it may be renewed in mutual co nsultation between the parties. The 
CCRA will be at liberty to take over the operation of the e-stamping system after the initial 
period of 5 years if they so choose and / or may re tain the services of  (…  name of the 
Company appointed as CRA… .) for a further period based on mutual agreement.  
11.2   On termination of Operation of e-stamping  b y the CCRA, (…  name of the Company 
appointed as CRA… .) will be required to transfer the data generated dur ing the period of 
appointment to the Government.  After the termination of the appointment of the CRA , the 
latter shall not in any way use or cause to be used  the data generated during the period of 
appointment for its business or any purpose whatsoe ver.  
11.3   (…  name of the Company appointed as CRA… .) will not provide, transfer or share any 
Hardware, Software or any other technical details w ith respect to the e-stamping project 
undertaken by it in the State to anybody, except th e duly appointed ACC, without written 
permission or authority of the CCRA. 
12.   EFFECTIVE DATE 
  This agreement shall be effective from the date o f its signing by the parties or such other 
date as fixed by the CCRA, hereinafter called the ‘ effective date’. The period of five years 
shall be calculated from the effective date. 
13.    EXCLUSIVITY 
  The appointment of (…  name of the Company appointed as CRA… .) as the CRA for the 
State shall be exclusive and CCRA will not appoint any other CRA for e-stamping during 
the period of validity of this agreement. 
14.   CHANGE OF CRA 
  After the expiry of the initial or renewed term o f appointment, the CCRA will be at liberty 
to avail the services / facilities of e-stamping fo r part or whole of the State from any 
agency of its choice and the (…  name of the Company appointed as CRA… .) shall have no 
objection to it.       
15.   THE GOVERNMENTS RESONSIBILITY 
  The Government /CCRA shall be responsible for pro viding on timely basis all information, 
decision making and approvals under its control and  resources required at offices of Sub-
Registrar, District Registrar / Deputy Commissioner  of Stamps or at any other offices 
authorized in this behalf, which may be reasonably required from time to time for the 
performance of this agreement. The Government / CCR A acknowledges that any delay to 
provide such information, decision-making and appro vals may result in delays in 
implementing this agreement. 
16.   ARBITRATION 
17.1   All disputes and differences between the par ties under this agreement shall as far as 
possible, be settled amicably and failing that all such disputes shall be referred to 
arbitration under the provisions of the Indian Arbi tration and Conciliation Act,1996. 
17.2   The place of arbitration shall be at Bangalo re. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF  the Parties have executed this Agreement on the da y and year first 
hereinabove written.  
 

---PAGE 18---
 18  
SIGNED, SEALED AND DELIVERED    ]  
By the CCRA (in Karnataka) Bangalore.  ] 
____________________________   ] 
in the presence of :   ] 
(i) Signature     ] 
   Name, . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  Official designation, . . . . . . . . . . . . 
  Address, . . . . . . . . . . . . 
(ii)  Signature     ] 
      Name,… … … … . 
      Official designation, . . . . . . . . . . . .  
      Address, . . . . . . . . . . . . 
SIGNED, SEALED AND DELIVERED   ]  
by the within named  (…  name of the  
Company appointed as CRA… .) by  ] 
Shri ---------------------------------  ] 
its authorised official.    ] 
in the presence of :   ] 
(i) Signature     ] 
  Name,… … … … . 
  Official designation, … … … … … … … . 
  Address… … … … … … … … … .    ] 
(ii) Signature     ] 
   Name,… … … … . 
  Official designation, … … … … … … … . 
  Address… … … … … … … … … .  
 
 T.K. RAMACHANDRA 
Under Secretary to Government 
Revenue Department 
(Stamps and Registration)  

---PAGE 19---
 19  
Annexure – A 
(See Rule 6) 
SERVICE LEVEL AGREEMENT  
  THIS AGREEMENT is made this. . . . . . . .day of.  . . . . . . .at Bangalore between the CCRA 
in Karnataka Bangalore,  for and on behalf of the G overnment of Karnataka (hereinafter referred 
to as the Appointing Authority/CCRA) and Stock Holding Corporation of India Limited , 
(SHCIL)/CRA (Central Record Keeping Agency) a Compa ny incorporated under the Companies 
Act, 1956, with its registered office at Mittal Court ‘B’ Wing, 2 nd  floor, 224, Nariman Point, 
Mumbai–400021 ( herein referred to as “Stock Holding Corporation of  India Limited.”, / CRA / 
Service Provider). 
  WHEREAS the State of Karnataka is desirous of imp lementing the Computerized stamp 
duty Administration system (C-SDAS) for the Stamps and Registration Department of the State of 
Karnataka. 
  AND WHEREAS the C-SDAS in particular will allow i ssuance of e-Stamp Certificates 
electronically. 
  AND WHEREAS SHCIL/CRA/SP (Service provider) agree d to develop and implement the 
C-SDA System for the State of Karnataka and also to  act as the Central Record Keeping Agency 
(CRA) for the C-SDA System. 
  AND WHEREAS the parties have signed a Agreement d ated … … … … … … … … … … … . for the purpose of 
rendering the services of e-stamping and one of the  conditions of the said agreement is that a 
Service Level Agreement will be executed between th e parties. 
  NOW IT IS HEREBY AGREED BY AND BETWEEN THE PARTIE S: 
 1. Duration of the Agreement  
  This agreement shall be continuous with the main agreement dated … … … … … … … … … . between the 
parties. 
 2. Services to be provided by SHCIL/CRA/SP  
 2.1 The Appointing Authority / CCRA hereby appoint s SHCIL and the SHCIL/CRA/SP accepts 
the appointment subject to the terms of this Agreem ent and the agreement dated … … … … … … … … … . to 
provide the following services: 
a)  Operation of the C-SDA System: 
b)  Customization of the C-SDA system, and 
c)  CRA Services. 
 3. Operational Modalities. 
        The  procedure  to  be  followed  by the AC C/CRA is explained  herein below.  
        The   format   of   the  proof  of  payment   shall  be  in  the form  of  e-Stamp Certificate,  
which is given as Annexure A-1. 
                     
 

---PAGE 20---
 20  
   Annexure - A-1 
(See Rule 22) 
 
 
(i) The Offices of the CCRA, Sub-Registrars and Distric t Registrars / Deputy Commissioner of Stamps 
will have an access to the Central Server of SHCIL through Internet. Such Internet connectivity will 
be set up by the said Offices. 
 
(ii) 
 The ACC will access SHCIL/CRA/SP servers through In ternet by using a identification number (UIN) 
and a confidential password.  The requisite details  of the information in the system will be entered 
and the e-Stamp Certificate will be downloaded with  a Unique Identification Number(UIN) on a plain 
paper or on an instrument as the case may be. 
 
 

---PAGE 21---
 21  
Schematic view / system overview  
 
 
 
 
 
□□ □□
□□ □□
□□ □□
 
 
□□ □□
□□ □□
□□ □□
 
 ---- 
----  e-Stamping  Server 
    Client/ 
Applicant    
with appln.      
(Form-3)   e-stamp 
certificate 
(Annexure A-
1) 
 
------- 
1     Authorised     
    Collection 
      Centre 3 Verification  by 
designated/ 
authorized  
official 5 
Government / 
   Treasury 
Registering 
Officer/Sub 
Registrar 
locks the     
e-stamp 
certificate 
after 
registering 
document 
 
4 e-Stamping centre 
 1.  Client/Applicant visits the e-stamping center/a uthorized collection center with the filled 
in application (Form-3) remitting the required stam p duty amount to obtain e-stamp 
certificate. 
2.  The client/applicant secures the e-stamp certificat e after having recorded the required 
information (vide his application/Form-3) in the e- stamping center/authorized collection 
center. 
3.  The stamp duty amount paid by the client/applicant (for obtaining the e-stamp 
certificate)  being remitted to Government. 
4.  The Registering officer/Sub-Registrar locks the e-s tamp certificate after registering the 
document. 
5.  The designated / authorized official verifies authe nticity/correctness of the e-stamp 
certificate. 2 

---PAGE 22---
 22  
 
(iii) The Sub-Registrar/District Registrar / Deputy Commi ssioner of Stamps will have access 
to SHCIL/CRA/SP site through Internet using passwor d and UIN which will be provided 
by SHCIL/CRA/SP.  Upon entering these details the S ub-Registrar/District Registrar / 
Deputy Commissioner of Stamps will be able to view the details of the e-Stamp 
Certificates on instruments. 
iv) It will be the responsibility of the Sub-Registrar,  District Registrar/Deputy Commissioner 
of Stamps to ensure that the stamp duty has been ap propriately paid on presentation of 
the document for  registration.  The Sub-Registrar,  District Registrar / Deputy 
Commissioner of Stamps will lock the e-Stamp certif icate after verification of the 
instruments presented  for registration.  Such lock ing will ensure that the payment of 
stamp duty for the transaction is not abused,  
v) All the Clients and approved intermediaries desirou s of remitting the Stamp duty will 
access the main server through Internet.  The Sub-R egistrar, District Registrar / Deputy 
Commissioner of Stamps who is responsible for Regis tration of instruments and the 
Government which is responsible for the collection of the stamp duty will also link to the 
main server through Internet. 
vi) The Client may approach any Approved Intermediary, which in turn will enter the 
requisite information in the system.  The system wi ll generate a UIN along with the 
transaction details, which will be printed as a Sta mped Certificate on the plain paper or 
on instrument as the case may be.   
Vii The Approved Intermediary will be registered with S HCIL/CRA/SP and the procedure for 
such registration will vary depending upon the same  being Financial Institutions, 
Insurance Companies, Banks, Post Office etc., as ap proved by the CCRA 
 
 4.  Authorized Stamping Centers (ASC) ACCs (also known as Approved Intermediaries) 
 i) The SHCIL Office, Financial Institutions, Insur ance Companies, Banks & Post Offices etc., 
as approved by the CCRA, shall be the Authorized Co llection Centers.      
 ii) The aforementioned ACCs will by and large take  care of property transactions of people 
living in cities, towns and villages having Interne t facility.  However, people residing in 
areas not having Internet facility also require sta mp papers for their transactions. A 
Computer-savvy Traveling Vender  who will carry a l ap top/palmtop to the village and 
download stamp from e-stamping system may be appoin ted as T.V. or other marketing 
agent/s,  in a phased manner with the approval of t he CCRA. 
 5. Registration of Approved Intermediaries and its  operations 
 a) The Insurance Companies, banks, financial insti tutions etc., as approved by the CCRA 
intending to become a ASC will be required to submi t a request in an application form 
and Agreement as stipulated by the CRA along with t he proof of identity and proof of 
address for ‘Service Administrator/s’ (person respo nsible for entering data on eSS and 
with stipulated application fee. The   format of th e application form as stipulated by the 
CRA, can be downloaded from the internet.  The duly  filled in application form and 
Agreement along with the fee for registration and d eposit as determined by 
SHCIL/CRA/SP alongwith advance amount (imprest amou nt) towards the download of 
stamps based on the business expected, should be su bmitted to SHCIL/CRA/SP. The AI/ 
ASC/ACC will have an option of adding up further am ounts towards imprest depending 
upon the usage every day or alternatively give a po wer of attorney to SHCIL to add up the 
further amount by giving necessary instructions to their Banker.  At no point of time, the  
ACCs  will  be  allowed to  print e- stamp  certifi cates in excess  of the amount available in 
their credit in the books of SHCIL/CRA/SP.  SHCIL/C RA/SP will collect such amount 
including deposits from the ASC for the use of its System. 
 

---PAGE 23---
 23  
 b) The Traveling vender (TV) or any other marketin g agents intending to be appointed should 
submit a request in a stipulated application form a nd Agreement along with proof of 
identity, proof of address and the stipulated appli cation fee.  The duly filled in application 
form along with the monies towards registration and  Agreement and deposit as 
determined by SHCIL/CRA/SP alongwith advance amount  (imprest amount) towards the 
download of stamps as may be determined based on th e business expected, should be 
submitted to SHCIL/CRA/SP.  The TV will have an opt ion of adding up further amounts 
towards imprest depending upon the usage every day or alternatively give a power of 
attorney to SHCIL/CRA/SP to add-up further amount b y giving necessary instructions to 
the banker.  At no point of time, the ASC will be a llowed to print e-Stamp Certificates in 
excess of the amount available in their credit in t he books of SHCIL/CRA/SP.  
SHCIL/CRA/SP will collect such monies including dep osits from the T.V. or other 
Marketing Agents for the use of its system. 
 c) The Approved Intermediary must provide to SHCIL /CRA/SP all information that may be 
desired by SHCIL/CRA/SP from time to time including  but not limited to information on 
every client being granted access to and use of the  services. 
 d) It will be the responsibility of the CCRA to inform  the public by way of a notification 
from time to time the appointment or termination of  the Approved Intermediaries/ 
Authorized collection centers. 
 e) Upon completion of the above SHCIL/CRA/SP will issue password and user identification 
numbers for use of its services.  The proper use of  the password will be the sole 
responsibility of the user and any loss caused to t he Government will be at the cost of 
ASC/SHCIL/CRA/SP where the loss wherever applicable  is caused by the SHCIL/ASC . 
 f) SHCIL/CRA/SP reserves the right in consultation  with CCRA to accept or reject any 
application of the Approved Intermediary as its sol e discretion. 
 g) All Approved Intermediaries will be periodicall y audited jointly by the Government and 
SHCIL/CRA/SP. 
 h) In the case of the termination of the appointme nt of Approved Intermediary either party 
may give a notice of one month of its intention to terminate the arrangement. 
 6. Link to e-Stamp Server (eSS) 
 a) All approved Intermediaries will access the eSS  through Internet only.  The access will 
differ depending upon the group to which the Approv ed Intermediary belong. The  
Insurance companies, banks and financial institutio ns will access the site through 
password and user identification number issued by S HCIL/CRA/SP.  SHCIL/CRA/SP will 
issue as many passwords and user identification num bers as  requested by the ASC.  
These  ASC  should  access eSS site using the passw ord and user identification number 
provided by SHCIL/CRA/SP.  Immediately upon accessi ng the site for the first time, the 
user should change the password to maintain confide ntiality  through a clerk supervisor 
system. 
 b) In respect of Approved Intermediaries falling u nder the category of traveling vendors, or 
other marketing agents, these T.V.’s or other marke ting agents will take the lap-top or the 
palm top to the villages, and the recording of data  will be off-line.  They will have to access 
the eSS through Internet every day evening and down load the information, upon which 
the e-Stamp Certificate would be generated. To faci litate the entry of data on off-line 
mode, SHCIL/CRA/SP will install software in the res pective laptops/palmtops of the T.V 
and/or other marketing agents at their cost. 
 

---PAGE 24---
 24  
 7. The Offices of  Sub-Registrars / District Regist rars / Deputy Commissioner of 
Stamps to have link to e-stamp server: 
 a) Since the property registration is done at the offices of Sub-Registrars / District 
Registrars, it is imperative that the Sub-Registrar  / District Registrar should have an 
access to the system, ensure that the stamp duty to  be paid for the transaction has 
indeed been paid and lock the e-Stamp certificate.  Such locking is necessary to ensure 
that the stamp duty paid is not abused. The unique identification number issued by the 
eSS for the stamp duty paid can be linked to the C- SDAS. 
 b) To facilitate the viewing and locking of e-Stam p certificate, pertaining to registered 
instruments, every office of Sub-Registrar,  Distri ct Registrar/Deputy Commissioner of 
Stamps will have a link to the eSS.  The Sub-Regist rar’s,  District Registrar’s  Office will 
have access to the e-stamping site through internet  using password and user 
identification number issued by SHCIL. Upon gaining  the access to the eSS the Sub- 
Registrar, District Registrar /Deputy Commissioner of Stamps have to enter the year, 
month and date of stamp duty payment as given in th e e-stamp certificate, select the 
unique identification number given in the e-Stamp C ertificate.  Upon entering these 
details, the Sub-Registrar, District Registrar /Dep uty Commissioner of Stamps will be 
able to view the e-Stamp Certificate.  The Sub-Regi strar, District Registrar / Deputy 
Commissioner of Stamps will be issued user Id and p assword with which they should 
update the system and lock the duty paid e-Stamp ce rtificate. 
 8. Access by Counter Parties 
 a) The purchasers or the beneficiaries may wish to  ensure that the counter party has indeed 
paid the stamp duty for the transaction and the e-S tamp certificate presented to them is 
genuine.  There should be no question of validity o f time for the e-Stamp Certificate.  
Nevertheless, counter parties can check the authent icity of the e-Stamp certificate by 
entering the year, month, date and Unique Identific ation No. from the e-Stamp Certificate: 
 b) Upon entering these details, the system will di splay the e-Stamp Certificate for viewing 
only.  The counter party will be able to check the authenticity of the Certificate.  Such 
enquiry module will provide information on the prop erty transactions also after the Sub-
Registrar / District Registrar has locked the stamp  duty paid. The CRA/SP should ensure 
that this service is available in all the offices o f Sub-Registrar / District Registrar / ASC & 
website.  
 c) The stamping certificate should indicate the co de No. of ASC office in which the ASC is 
located.  
 9. Stamping of different types of Instruments 
 a) The proposed system envisages e-stamping the do cuments on real time basis via the 
Internet.  The transactions can be broadly divided into: 
• Instruments to be registered with the Sub-Registrar  / District Registrar  and  
• Instruments, which do not require registration 
 b) e-stamping includes two types of documents to b e stamped.  
 1) Instruments printed/typed but not stamped or un duly stamped. 
 2) Stamps Certificates required for drawing instru ments. 
 c) The ASC’s shall stamp any instrument or plain p aper specified in this behalf with an 
amount of duty as required by the client. 
 

---PAGE 25---
 25  
    d)  In the case of instruments which require re gistration with the Sub-Registrar / District 
Registrar  generally these are prepared by Deed Wri ters, law firms, and  practicing 
Company Secretaries firms etc. or even banks, finan cial institutions or even insurance 
companies.  The stamp duty can be paid by entering the transaction details in the system.  
The system will check the balance available in the Account of concerned Approved 
Intermediary and subject to the availability of req uisite funds in the Account will 
authorize the transaction and issue a certificate o f stamp duty immediately with a unique 
identification number, Year, month and date, and pr int the certificate at a later point of 
time.   
 10. MIS for Government 
  The CCRA in charge of stamp duty and the  Governm ent will be able to get details of 
stamp duty collected in the State at any point of t ime.  Besides, the CCRA will ensure the 
amount collected by SHCIL/CRA/SP towards the downlo ad of stamps is transferred to the 
State Governments Account after due reconciliation.   For this purpose, it is necessary that 
the CCRA/ Government should have a link to eSS.  Bo th the departments will have access 
to site through Internet using the password and ide ntification numbers.  Since the 
Government is responsible for the duty collected ac ross the state, its data requirement 
will be enormous and all encompassing.  To enable t he Government / CCRA  to download 
the data in the format in which they require, the  SHCIL/CRA/SP will prepare standard 
formats.  The CCRA will specify the requirement of any additional reports The CRA/SP 
will provide any additional reports in future free of cost, unless in exceptional cases 
charges will be as mutually agreed. Considering the  fact that the Department will be 
viewing the revenue of the entire Government, the s ame will be done by procuring digital 
signature by the Government to access the server fo r the purpose of getting MIS.  
 11. General 
 a) SHCIL/CRA/SP shall ensure that the following se rvice levels are achieved in relation to 
the C-SDA System: 
 i) The C-SDA System shall be operational and acces sible to clients during the following 
hours on the following days, (hereinafter referred as the “Operational Hours”,  
  Monday to Saturday 9.00 a.m. to 5.00 pm  
 ii) The availability of each and every information  service during the Operational Hours shall 
individually be not less than 90% each calendar mon th 
 iii) SHCIL/CRA/SP shall not be liable for any fail ure or reduction in the aforesaid 
performance level or any other consequences caused by or due to the failure or 
breakdown of any third party facilities including I nternet access providers, 
telecommunication lines, switches and networks, oth er than third party facilities provided 
by any sub-c0ntractors appointed by SHCIL/CRA/SP to  perform any part of the services 
under this Agreement. 
 iv) Before any Approved Intermediary first uses th e C-SDA System, SHCIL/CRA/SP shall 
ensure that every such User enters into the User Ne twork Services Agreement with 
SHCIL/CRA/SP agreeing not to commence action or oth erwise enforce any rights against 
the Government / CCRA in respect of any liability, in contract or tort or otherwise, for any 
acts, statements, errors or omissions made by the G overnment / CCRA or its employees 
in good faith and in the ordinary course of duties of the employees of the Government, the 
SHCIL/CRA/SP shall use reasonable endeavours to enf orce the terms of such agreement 
against every user who enters into the same.   
 

---PAGE 26---
 26  
 b) Maintenance of Servers 
  SHCIL/CRA/SP will shut down its Servers at least for about eight hours in a week on a 
holiday for the purpose of maintenance.  During thi s time, the system will be down and 
there will be no access to e-stamping facility.  Fu rther, SHCIL/CRA/SP will endeavor that 
the up-time of the system will be up to 90% excludi ng the time for shut down of its 
servers for the maintenance. 
 c)  SHCIL/CRA/SP shall provide service to investigate and correct defects in the C-SDA 
Software as reported by the Department including te mporary corrections and bypass of 
the defects until such time as standard corrections  and/or updates of the Software are 
available. The timing for correction/bypassing depe nds on the severity of the error as set 
out below: 
 i) Severity 1: This is a defect or error, which re sults in the failure of a service as a whole.  
Such defects and errors shall be rectified within t wo (2) working days of the problem 
being reported to SHCIL/CRA/SP in writing. 
 ii) Severity 2 This is the defect, which results i n system functionality other than those 
which are covered under Severity 1, being impaired,  and there are no existing 
alternatives for by-passing the problem. Such defec ts and errors shall be rectified within 
two (2) working days of the problem being reported to SHCIL/CRA/SP in writing. 
 iii) Severity 3: All other errors and defects.  Su ch defects and errors shall be rectified within 
seven (7) working days of the problem being reporte d to SHCIL/CRA/SP in writing. 
 iv) The time frames for rectification or correctio n set out in Clauses above shall not apply 
where the defects or programming errors have arisen  in third party programmes or 
applications used by SHCIL/CRA/SP to develop its ap plication or used by 
SHCIL/CRA/SP with or in its applications  
 v) Disaster Recovery: 
  SHCIL/CRA/SP shall take reasonably sufficient mea sures to ensure that it is able to 
carry on, with disruption of not more than a contin uous time of 24 hours, providing C-
SDA System under this agreement, even in the event of the occurrence of a disaster 
which affects, or would affect providing of service s if measures had not been taken.  
 d) Limitation of Liability 
 i) SHCIL/CRA/SP shall not under any circumstances be held responsible for any error, 
defect, default, delayed or non performance, loss o f data, transmission failure or other 
problems in connection with its provision of C-SDA System for any claims, actions, losses, 
costs, expenses liabilities or adverse consequences  arising there from due to any cause or 
reason not perpetrated by or attributable to SHCIL/ CRA/SP or otherwise outside the 
control of SHCIL/CRA/SP. 
 e) Concurrent Users 
  e-stamping system will have persons logging for t he download of stamps and also for 
logging queries relating to stamp duty and the ulti mate printing of the stamps.  Keeping in 
mind the various issues relating to e-stamping and the number of persons that may log 
into the system throughout the day, SHCIL/CRA/SP wi ll endeavor to ensure that at a 
given point of time appx. 400 users could use its s ystem. The use of system will include 
time for the persons logging to our system for quer ies with regard to e-stamping and for 
the time for data entry by a user till the time of actual printing of the Stamp Certificate. 
 f)  SHCIL/CRA/SP will require a stabilization period 6 -8 months from the time of the system 
running in full scale at each of the centers and du ring such time service standards will 

---PAGE 27---
 27  
not be applicable.  The peak times during the day w ill be identified and on the basis of 
experience, the concurrent users who would be using  our system will be adjusted 
accordingly.  SHCIL/CRA/SP does not guarantee the a vailability of the internet. 
 g)  If any extra services are required, wherein SHCIL/ CRA/SP will be required to put in extra 
efforts, or the same is on the basis of any extra c ost to SHCIL/CRA/SP, the same will be 
recovered from the ASC or the Traveling Vendor or a ny other marketing agent or the 
general public directly. 
 h)  This Service Level Agreement will be concurrent wi th the agreement dated … … … … … … … … … … …   
executed between CCRA and SHCIL/CRA/SP. 
 i)  All other terms and conditions as mentioned in the  agreement dated: . . . . . . between the 
CCRA and SHCIL/CRA/SP shall be concurrent with this  agreement.  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF  the parties have hereunto set their hands the day and year first above 
written. 
For and on behalf of Stock Holding Corporation of I ndia Ltd.,  
In the presence of :  
Signed by  
CCRA (in Karnataka) Bangalore.   
(for and on behalf of the Government)  
 
In the presence of:  
(1) 
(2)                                                                                        
T.K. RAMACHANDRA 
Under Secretary to Government, 
Revenue Department 
(Stamps and Registration) 
  

---PAGE 28---
 28  
Form  - 2 
 (See Rule 6) 
(To be executed by the CRA on non-judicial stamp pa per of Rs. 100) 
Undertaking cum Indemnity Bond 
      This Indemnity Bond is made and executed at _ _____(place)__on this ______day of 
(month)… … … … …  200…  by Sri … … … … … … … … … … … … … … S/O......... ................................................ R/ O 
.................................................… … … … … … (official designation in the CRA)… … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … .as 
Authorised Signatory for and on behalf of … … … … … … … … … … … . (…  name of the Company appointed as 
CRA… .) having its registered office at _________(complete address of the CRA) 
… … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … .  hereinafter referred to a s  the Central Record Keeping Agency or CRA 
(which expression shall unless repugnant to the con text or meaning thereof shall mean and 
include their representatives, assigns, heirs,etc.) . 
In favour of the  CCRA (in Karnataka) Bangalore. he reinafter referred to as the  Appointing  
Authority, (which expression shall unless repugnant  to the context or meaning thereof shall 
mean and include Government of Karnataka and its du ly authorised representative). 
Whereas  
1. the CRA has been appointed by the State to act a s “ Central Record Keeping Agency ” and has 
thus been authorised by the Government for computer ization of Stamp duty Administration 
System in the State to issue e-stampCertificates to  denote the payment of non-judicial Stamp 
duty under the Karnataka Stamp Act, 1957 (Act no. 3 4 of 1957) by the public to the Government 
through its branches/ offices and the Authorised Co llection Centers (called ACCs) located in the 
State. 
2. and the CRA has agreed to fulfill all the condit ions as required by the law, and also to 
undertake and keep indemnified the Government again st all or any losses suffered by the 
Government due to any mishandling, misconduct, negl igence or any irregularity of any kind 
whatsoever caused by the CRA or its ACCs, 
3. and the CRA has agreed to the obedience and obse rvance of terms and conditions that are 
prescribed in The Karnataka Stamp (Payment of Duty by Means of e-stamping) Rules, 2009 
(hereinafter called ‘the rules’) and other orders i ssued by the Government or the Department 
under these rules, 
4. the CRA to fulfill the aforesaid requirement and  in order to undertake and indemnify the 
Government, is executing this presents as follows;-  
 NOW THEREFORE THIS DEED OF UNDERTAKING CUM INDEMNI TY BOND 
WITNESSETH AS FOLLOWS:- 
(a)  the CRA hereby undertakes that the e-stamping centers (the branches / offices of the CRA 
and its duly appointed ACCs) shall be available for  inspection at all reasonable times by any of 
the officials mentioned in rule 33 of the rules or any officer authorised by the Appointing 
Authority/CCRA in this behalf without notice. The C RA also undertakes not to change or 
increase the ACCs without prior permission in writi ng of the Appointing Authority / CCRA.  
(b)  the CRA undertakes to provide on demand to any  inspecting officer, as mentioned in clause 
(a), any information on soft and/or hard copy of an y electronic or digital record related to the 
collection and remittance of Stamp duty relating to  any time period or any other related 
information under rule 44 of the rules without unre asonable delay,  
(c)  the CRA undertakes to abide by all the terms a nd conditions as may be prescribed by the 
Appointing Authority / CCRA  from time to time as t o the implementation of the rules, 
(d) The Central Record Keeping Agency shall be resp onsible to remit the consolidated amount of 
Stamp duty collected by its offices/ branches and b y its Authorised Collection Centres to  “0030-
02-103-0-01 Non – Judicial” head of account or any other notified head of account of the State, 
in the manner prescribed hereunder.  

---PAGE 29---
 29  
             (i) In case of stamp duty, collected b y way of cash /Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS)/ 
Electronic Clearance System (ECS) or any other mode  of electronic transfer of funds, the Central 
Record Keeping Agency shall remit the consolidated amount of stamp duty (less, the prescribed 
discount/commission)  to the prescribed head of acc ount of the state, not later than the closing 
of the next working day, after the day of collectio n of the amount of stamp duty.  
            (ii) In case of stamp duty, collected b y way of pay order  (P.O)/ Demand draft (D.D), the 
Central Record Keeping Agency shall remit the conso lidated amount of stamp duty (less, the 
prescribed discount/commission) to the prescribed h ead of account of the state, not later than 
the closing of the second working day, after the  d ay of collection of the amount of stamp duty. 
(e). the CRA undertakes that in case it fails to re mit the amount of Stamp duty within the period 
as stipulated in rule 19 of the rules, the CRA shal l be liable to pay, along with the collected 
amount of Stamp duty, an interest calculated @ 12.0 0 % per annum for the period of delay in 
day(s). Any part of a day will be treated as one da y for the purpose of such calculation, 
(f) The CRA shall be responsible to furnish the inf ormation reports, as provided in rule 44 of the 
rules, to the CCRA and to any or all such other off icers as he may direct, 
(g) the CRA undertakes that any of its employees or  the employees of its ACCs directly or 
indirectly will not misuse or cause to be misused t he authorization to collect Stamp duty for the 
State by issue of e-stamp certificates, 
(h) the CRA hereby undertakes to keep the Appointin g Authority/CCRA, always indemnified 
against all or any of the losses or any third party  risk arising out of any mishandling, 
misconduct, negligence or any irregularity of any k ind whatsoever caused by the CRA or its 
ACCs. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF  the CRA has executed this Undertaking cum Indemnity Bond on the 
day and year first hereinabove written.  
SIGNED, SEALED AND DELIVERED    ]  
By Sri. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . .   
as Authorised Signatory for and on behalf of 
(…  name of the  
Company appointed as CRA. . . . . .)  
in the presence of :   ] 
 (i) Signature     ] 
  Name. . . . . . . 
  Official designation. . . . . . . 
  Address. . . . . . . 
 (ii) Signature     ] 
   Name. . . . . . . 
   Official designation. . . . . . . 
   Address. . . . . . . 
 
 T.K. RAMACHANDRA 
Under Secretary to Government 
Revenue Department 
(Stamps and Registration)  
 
 

---PAGE 30---
 30  
Form - 3  
 (See Rule 20 & 25) 
 
E-STAMPING APPLICATION FORM 
ACC   ACC Id 
 
Details of Purchaser /Authorised Person  
Name & Address of the Purchaser 
with Phone No  
  
Name & Address  
of the Authorized Person (if any) with 
Phone No   
  
 
Stamp duty Payment Details 
Stamp duty Amount 
Rs.  Type of Payment: 
/boxshadowdwn Cash         /boxshadowdwn DD       /boxshadowdwn Pay-Order 
/boxshadowdwn RTGS       /boxshadowdwn ECS     /boxshadowdwn Any authorized mode  
DD/ Pay-order No.  Date:                       /        / 200  
Bank Name   Branch   Name                                               
The Information furnished above, is true to the bes t of my knowledge 
 
 
Date:                                             S ignature of the Purchaser/ 
           Authorised Person 
 
(For Office use only) 
I Verify that the Application Form is in order 
USER  
SUBIN   
Signature   
 
SUPERVISOR  
Brief particulars of the e-stamp Certificate                                 Signature                                                                                               
                                                                                          
E-Stamp Certificate received by    Name:                                  Signature:    
/scissorsoutline...................… … … … … … /scissorsoutline............................... /scissorsoutline................................ /scissorsoutline.............. 
 
E-STAMPING        Receipt       (To be filled in by the client) 
Name of the Purchaser / Authorised Person  
Application Date:  
Stamp duty Amount   
Rs.  Type of 
Payment  /boxshadowdwn Cash     /boxshadowdwn DD       /boxshadowdwn Pay-Order 
/boxshadowdwn RTGS    /boxshadowdwn ECS     /boxshadowdwn any other mode       
DD/Pay- order No.  Date:                               /        / 200  
Bank Name  Branch Name  
Counter Signature with  Seal 
Note:- 1) Once the e-Stamp Certificate has been generated,  payment cannot be cancelled or 
refunded by CRA. For cancellation and refund of  e- Stamp Certificate, the applicant has to 
approach the Deputy Commissioner of Stamps of the c oncerned district. 
 
            2) This Receipt may be computer generat ed. 
 T.K. RAMACHANDRA 
Under Secretary to Government 
Revenue Department 
(Stamps and Registration)  

---PAGE 31---
 31  
Form  - 4   
(See Rule 31) 
 
Application for Cancellation and Refund of e-Stamp Certificate 
ACC   ACC Id.   
Application date  /            / 200 
Details of the E-stamp Certificate presented for ca ncellation and Refund 
e-Stamp Certificate Number: 
IN                    
Date of Issue of the Certificate                     /                  / 200 
Details of Purchaser /Authorised Person 
Name & Address of the Purchaser 
with Phone No  
 
Name & Address of the Auhtorised 
Person(if any) with Phone No 
  
* In case an authorised person is presenting the ref und application on behalf of the e-stamp 
purchaser, this application must be accompanied wit h authorisation from the purchaser 
(executed on a Rs. 20 non-judicial stamp paper), du ly witnessed and attested by Notary Public.  
Stamp Duty Payment Details 
e-stamp Certificate Purchased by  
Stamp duty Amount Rs:                      e-stamp certificate no:                                   d ate: 
 
The information stated above is true to the best of  my knowledge and belief 
 
Date: 
Signature of the purchaser / 
Authorised Person of the certificate 
                
Report of the Deputy Commissioner of Stamps 
 
The details of the e-stamp Certificate have been ve rified from the system. The said certificate has 
not been disabled in the data base of e-stamp certi ficate. This certificate of verification has been 
endorsed on the said certificate also. Refund of th e amount of Stamp duty mentioned in the 
certificate is recommended.   
 
Sign. & Seal of the Authorised Signatory … … … … … … … … … … … … … … 
 
 
For use of the Office of the Deputy Commissioner of  Stamps. 
Report of the Stamp Clerk:  
 
 
Order of the Deputy Commissioner regarding refund: 
 
 Sign. & Seal 
of the Deputy Commissioner 
of the Stamps 
 
 
 T.K. RAMACHANDRA 
Under Secretary to Government 
Revenue Department 
(Stamps and Registration)  

---PAGE 32---
 32  
FORM - 5 
(See Rule 21(3)) 
 
Register regarding daily postings of applications f or e-stamp Certificates and e-Stamp 
Certificates issued (to be maintained by the ACC / CRA)  
 
Sl 
No  Date  Name of the 
Purchaser / 
Authorised 
Person  Amount of Stamp 
duty paid by way 
of Cash / DD / PO 
/ Any other 
authorised mode  e-stamp 
Certificate No 
and date  Signature of 
the Purchaser 
or Authorised 
Person  
1 2 3 4 5 6 
      
      
      
 
                                                                                         
 T.K. RAMACHANDRA 
Under Secretary to Government 
Revenue Department 
(Stamps and Registration)  
 
FORM - 6 
(See Rule 19 (3)) 
 
Register regarding the daily stamp duty collected a nd remitted to Government  
(to be maintained by the CRA)  
 
PART – I 
 
Amount of stamp 
duty collected  Sl 
No  Date  Name of the  CRA  No. of  e-stamp 
certificates 
issued  by Cash  by DD / 
PO etc.,  Total  
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 
       
       
 
PART - II 
 
Amount of 
stamp duty 
collected  
Date  Opening 
Balance 
(Previous 
day’s 
Closing 
Balance)  by 
Cash  by DD 
/ PO 
etc.,  Total  Amount 
Remitted to 
Government  Commission @ 
0.65% (of the 
Amount in 
column 
13)payable to 
the CRA 
deducted.  TDS 
(Tax Deducted 
at Source) / 
Duty payable 
to the Central 
/ State Govt., 
deducted from 
the 
Commission 
Amount (in 
Column 14)  Closing 
Balance 
(12-13)  
8 9 10  11  12  13  14  15  16  
         
         
           
 T.K. RAMACHANDRA 
Under Secretary to Government 
Revenue Department 
(Stamps and Registration)  
               
¸ÀPÁðj ªÀÄÄzÀæuÁ®AiÀÄ, «PÁ¸À ¸ËzsÀ WÀlPÀ, ¨ÉAUÀ¼ÀÆgÀÄ.   