Sayyad  Touseef  Hussaini  
Senior  Cyber  Security &  VAPT 
Consultant,  Penetration  Tester  
Email  : Touseef90@yahoo.com  
Contact No  : +91 8951750565 
LinkedIn   : sayyad -touseef -huusaini  
PROFESSIONAL  SUMMARY  
To be Dedicated  and detail -oriented Cyber security professional with 8 years of 
experience  in the Vulnerability  Assessment  and Penetration  Testing  (VAPT)  domain. 
Currently employed as a Senior Security Consultant at EMIDS TECHNOLOGIES PVT 
LTD, specializing in VAPT Gove rnance, Bug Bounty Program, Network VAPT, Web 
Applications, Android,  iOS, API, Secure Configuration Review, Phishing Campaigns, 
Cloud Security and source code review. Seeking opportunities to leverage my 
expertise and contribute to the cyber security field  while continuing to learn and 
grow.  
 
CAREER  TIMELINE  
Emids  Technologies  Pvt Ltd 
Senior  Security  Consultant  
 
PROTIVITI INDIA MEMBER 
PRIVATE LIMITED.  
Senior Cyber Security 
Consultant,   
 
Veave Technologies Pvt Ltd. 
Cyber Security Analyst, 
Penetration Tester  
 
Digital  Age Strategies Pvt Ltd. 
Cyber Security Analyst, 
Penetration Tester  July 2019 
to 
Nov 2020  
 
 
Veave Technologies Pvt Ltd. 
Cyber Security Intern  
 
 
 
CLIENTS  RELATIONSHIP  
 
Performed  Vulnerability  Assessment  and Penetration  Testing  for Server,  Router, 
Switches, Web Application, Mobile applications for the following domain:  
• Govern ment  Administration.  
• Banking  Financial  Services  and Insurance  (BFSI).  
• Defense,  Power  Distribution,  Hospitality  
• Telecom,  Infrastructure,  Information  Technology,  Education  
• Private  Sector  Labs,  Manufacturing,  Travel  & Transport  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
June  2019  
 
 
 
 
 
 CORE  SKILLS   
Troubleshooting  | Threat  Management  
Troubleshooting | Risk Assessment | 
 
 Expertise   
VAPT  Governance  
Bug Bounty  Program  
Vulnerability  Assessment  
Web  Application  Penetration  Testing  
Android  Penetration  Testing  
iOS Penetration  Testing  
API Penetration  Testing  
Network  Penetration  Testing  
Application  Security  
 
IOT Penetration  Testing  
Server  Hardening  
 
UAR  2021  to june  2024  
 
 
 
NESSUS  
NMAP  
BURPSUITE  
WIRESHARK  
SQLmap  
Kali (OS) 
MobSF  
Apk Tool 
Dek2jar  
Jd-Gui 
Hopper  
PostMan  
SoupUI  
Spiderfoot  
Acunetix  
 
  AI TOOLS   
 
 
 
 
 
TOOLS  
 
EXPERIENCE  
 
    EMIDS  TECHNOLOGIES  PRIVATE  LIMITED.  Dec 2024  – April 2026  
Senior  Security  Consultant  
• Conducted comprehensive Vulnerability Assessment and Penetration Testing 
(VAPT) for  a cloud -based claims  review platform,  replacing multiple  legacy  systems 
with a centralized solution.  
• Performed web and mobile application security testing, identifying critical 
vulnerabilities across platforms using tools like Burp Suite, OWASP ZAP, Nessus,  
Kali Linux, and mobile -specific tool s/environments.  
• Ensured alignment with OWASP Top 10 (Web and Mobile) by detecting and 
mitigating security flaws such as insecure data storage, improper platform usage, 
and insufficient transport layer protection.  
• Executed Black Box and Grey Box testing met hodologies to simulate attacker 
behavior and assess system defenses in real -world scenarios.  
• Analyzed outputs from automated tools, manually verified vulnerabilities, and 
filtered out false positives for accurate and high -quality reporting.  
• Prepared and  presented detailed security assessment reports with risk ratings, 
impact analysis, and actionable remediation recommendations to development 
teams and stakeholders.  
• Collaborated with cross -functional teams to address security gaps early in the  
SDLC, enhan cing the platform’s security posture across both web and mobile 
interfaces.  
• Supported the secure design of a modular, configurable architecture, ensuring 
scalability, maintainability, and compliance across jurisdictions and future 
programs.  
 
 
 
 
PROTIVITI  INDIA  MEMBER  PRIVATE  LIMITED.  Dec 2021  – June  2024  
Senior  Cyber  Security  Consultant  
• VAPT Governance: Managing the VAPT Governance. The scope of work include, Monitoring all vulnerability assessment and 
penetration testing activities, Co - ordinating with all  the stakeholders and addressing the challenges. Following up with 
application owners and tracking the mitigation status and challenges.  
• Bug Bounty Program: Managing the Bug Bounty Program. The scope of work include, receiving the bugs regularly from  the 
Onedesk tool, Verifying the bugs, assigning to the respective application owners, Following up with application owners and 
tracking the progression status, rewards and challenges.  
• Conducting Vulnerability Assessment of Servers, Workstations, Switches,  Routers, Firewalls/UTM Devices, IDS & IPS, Load 
Balancers and other Network devices.  
• Vulnerability  Assessment  performed  using  Nessus,  Kali Linux  tools  etc. 
• Conducting  Manual/Automated  Security  Testing  for Internet  and Intranet  Web  Applications.  
• Performing  Mobile  Application  Penetration  Testing.  
• Understanding of web application security concepts and standards, checking for vulnerabilities in application as per  OWASP 
guidelines.  
• Analyzing  tool-based  report  and removing  false  positive  results.  
• Generating  repo rts based  on vulnerability  assessments  and presenting  them  to clients.  
• Planning,  Managing  and Execution  of projects.  
• Perform  penetration  testing  for web  applications  using  manual  and automated  tools  
• Performed  VAPT  using  Black  Box testing  and Grey  Box testing  Techniques.  
• Good  Knowledge  on OWASP  Top 10 Vulnerabilities  and TCP/IP  
 
VEAVE  TECHNOLOGIES  PVT LTD,  BANGALURU  Nov 2020  – Sep 2021  
Cyber  Security  Analyst  | Penetration  Tester  
 
• The Application  PT performed  against  OWASP  Top 10 Vulnerabilities  using  Burp  Suite,  Drib,  Directory  Buster  etc.,  as well  as 
Manually.  
• Performed  reviewing  Vulnerability  Assessment  using  Nessus  NMAP  etc. 
• Manual,  verifying  the results  and removing  the false  positives  from  the issues  reported.  
• Performed  Mobile  Application  Penetration  Testing  of Android  and IOS. 
• Performed  API Testing  using  Postman  and Burp  suite  tools.  ACADEMICS  
• Bachelor of Engineering (VTU 
Belagavi)  
• Diploma  (DTE  Bengaluru)  
 
 
 
CEH (Certified Ethical Hacker) 
Certificate no: ECC6237109458  
ISO 27001:2013 ISMS LEAD 
AUDITOR  
CompTIA  A+ 
AWS Security, Identity, and 
Compliance  - Amazon  Web  Services.  
 
Web Application Penetration Testing 
and Ethical Hacking – Cybrary.  
 
Mobile  App Security  – Cybrary.  
 
Cybersecurity  Essentials  by CISCO  
 
Cloud Computing by EC Council. Cert 
No : 3683264268714  
 
CYBER  HYGIENE  PRACTICES  by 
Ministry of Information technology. 
Cert  no : Meit/ISEA/WCHP/021889  
HOBBIES  
 DETAILS  
• Manages  multiple  tasks  and priorities  on very  tight  deadlines  
• Create  reports  from  results  of vulnerability  testing  done  and distribute  the results  to the Client.  
• Identify  and analyze  Web  application  vulnerabilities  based  on latest  industry  attacks.  
• Interaction  with  the client  for the issues  to be fixed  and discussion  about  upcoming  security  measures  to be implemented  for 
the Web Applications.  
• Performing  Infrastructure  Scans  for various  Servers  using  Nessus,  and Nmap.  
• Conducting  Manual/Automated  Security  Testing  for Internet  and Intranet  Web  Applications.  
• Exploit  Development  through  burp  suite,  Kali Linux  Tools  
 
DIGITAL  AGE  STRETAGIES  PVT LTD,  BANGALURU  July 2019  – Nov 2020  
Cyber  Security  Analyst  | Penetration  Tester  
 
• Performed  Web  application  Penetration  testing and  Vulnerability  Assessment of Government  Administration,  Power 
distribution, BFSI, Defense, Private sector lab clients against OAWSP Top 10 Vulnerabilities.  
• Performed  Black  Box and gray  Box Testing  for Internet  and intranet.  
• Performed  Mobile  application  Penetration  testing  for Banking  and Health  insurance  Sector.  
• Performed  Vulnerability  Assessment  testing  for Banking,  Defense,  Government  administration  and various  sector  clients 
By using Nessus, Nmap and kali Linux tools  
• Manual  reviewing,  verifying  the results  and removing  the false  positives  from  the issues  reported.  
• Create  reports  from  results  of vulnerability  testing  done  and distribute  the results  to the Client.  
• Manages  multiple  tasks  and priorities  on very  tight  deadlines  
 
 
• Playing  Cricket  and Foot  Ball 
• Bug Bounty  Hunting  
• Playing  Chess  
• Travelling  
 
 
Gender  : Male  
Nationality  : Indian  
Language  Known  : English,  Hindi,  Kannnada,  Urdu,  Arabic  
Address  : No.369,  6th cross  pailayout,  Hulimavu  BG Road  Bangalore  – 560076  Karnataka  India.  
 