Rekha  U S 
System Engineer(QA) – Manual and Automation Testing (Java  with Selenium &API ) 
mailto:rekharekha69982@gmail.com  || https://www.linkedin.com/in/rekha -u-s || +91 8861531951  
 
 
 
Professional Overview  
Overall  4.5 years  of industry  experience  in the area of Software  Testing  (Manual  and Automation)  with a 
solid understanding of Test Planning, Test Design, Test Execution and Defect Reporting Tracking.  
 
 Strong knowledge of Software Testi ng Life Cycle (STLC)  and experience working in Agile Scrum  
methodology with active participation in sprint planning, daily stand -ups, sprint reviews, and retrospectives.  
 Expertise in Test Planning, Test Case Design, Test Execution, Defect Tracking, Test Re porting, and 
Test Closure  activities.  
 Proficient in UI Automation Testing using  Java, Selenium WebDriver, TestNG, JUnit, Maven, and 
Cucumber BDD . 
 Extensive experience in REST API Functional Testing, API Validation, and API Automation using  
Postman and REST  Assured.  
 Strong understanding of RESTful Web Services, HTTP/HTTPS protocols, JSON, XML, API 
architecture, client -server communication, and HTTP methods  . 
 Experience in validating HTTP status codes, response payloads, respons e headers, response time, 
request parameters, and authentication mechanisms . 
 Experience in designing, developing, and maintaining automation frameworks using the Page Object Model 
(POM).  
 Strong knowledge of Functional, Smoke, Sanity, Regression, Integratio n, System, End -to-End (E2E), 
and User Acceptance Testing (UAT).  
 Hands -on experience with BDD  using SpecFlow  and writing feature files and step definitions.  
 Experience using  JIRA, Azure DevOps, Zephyr, Git/GitHub, Jenkins, and CI/CD  pipelines for defect 
management, version control, and continuous testing.  
 
Technical  Proficiency  
 
 Programming Language : Java  
 UI Automation : Selenium WebDriver, TestNG, JUnit, Cucumber BDD, SpecFlow  
 API Testing : REST Assured, Postman, Swagger, REST API Testing, JSON, HTT P/HTTPS  
 Test Management : Jira, Zephyr, Azure DevOps, TFS  
 Version  Control : Git, GitHub, Bitbucket , Jenkins  
 Database : SQL ( queries and validation ) 
 IDE: Eclipse, IntelliJ IDEA, Visual Studio  
 
 
Work Experience  
  Organization:  QUALITEST   
Client: Mercedes Benz  R&D   
Duration:  Nov 2024  to Till  date 
Tools  Used  :  Selen ium WebDriver, TestNG, Cucu mber BDD, Rest Assured, Postman , GitHu b, Azur e 
DevOps (TFS), Jen kins, VS Code,  
Testing  Approach  : Manual  and Automation.  
Description:  Mercedes -Benz Data Collection Management System – An automotive platform designed to 
collect, process, and manage diagnostic and operational data from multiple Electronic Control Units (ECUs), 
enabling efficient vehicle monitoring, analysis, and backend integration.  

 
 
 Roles  & Responsibilities:  
 Designed and executed end -to-end automation test cases for the Mercedes -Benz Dat a Collection 
Management platform, validating data acquisition from multiple ECUs.  
 Automated API testing using Rest Assured and Postman to verify data exchange between vehicle ECUs 
and backend services.  
 Developed and maintained functional, regression, and i ntegration test suites using Selenium WebDriver, 
Java, TestNG, and Cucumber BDD.  
 Validated UI, API, and database interactions to ensure data integrity, system reliability, and seamless 
end-to-end workflow  
 
Organization:  TCS  
Client:  CBA  
Duration:  Nov 2021  to 2024  
Tools  Used  :  Selenium  Web driver, Java,  SpecFlow, Visual  Studio, Post man, Git 
Testing  Approach  : Manual  and Automation.  
Description:  Comm See web Credit risk appli cation for Business Banking CCL Auto - Decisioning Credit 
Bureau Information and re ports.  
 
Roles  & Responsibilities:  
 Performed Functional testing, Integration testing, and System testing  
 Performed regression and E2E testing  
 Play the role of test engineer: writing test script and executing automated tests script.  
 Identify and report issues found, then verify  that issues are resolved.  
 
Educatio n 
Bachelor of Engineering (B.E.) – Informati on Science & Engineerin g 
SDM Institute of Technology (SDMIT), Ujire  (Affiliated to VTU ) 
Graduated:  2021  
Personal Detail s 
 Name:  Rekha U S  
 Location:  Whitefield, Bengaluru, Karnataka  
 Languages:  English, Kannada  
 
 